 
# Stories for Thinking Children 2

# Harun Yahya (Adnan Oktar)

# About the Author

Now writing under the pen-name of HARUN YAHYA, Adnan Oktar was born in Ankara in 1956. Having completed his primary and secondary education in Ankara, he studied fine arts at Istanbul's Mimar Sinan University and philosophy at Istanbul University. Since the 1980s, he has published many books on political, scientific, and faith-related issues. Harun Yahya is well-known as the author of important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, their invalid claims, and the dark liaisons between Darwinism and such bloody ideologies as fascism and communism.

Harun Yahya's works, translated into 63 different languages, constitute a collection for a total of more than 55,000 pages with 40,000 illustrations.

His pen-name is a composite of the names Harun (Aaron) and Yahya (John), in memory of the two esteemed Prophets who fought against their peoples' lack of faith. the Prophet's seal on his books' covers is symbolic and is linked to their contents. It represents the Qur'an (the Final Scripture) and Prophet Muhammad (saas), last of the prophets. Under the guidance of the Qur'an and the Sunnah (teachings of the Prophet [saas]), the author makes it his purpose to disprove each fundamental tenet of irreligious ideologies and to have the "last word," so as to completely silence the objections raised against religion. He uses the seal of the final Prophet (saas), who attained ultimate wisdom and moral perfection, as a sign of his intention to offer the last word.

All of Harun Yahya's works share one single goal: to convey the Qur'an's message, encourage readers to consider basic faith-related issues such as Allah's existence and unity and the Hereafter; and to expose irreligious systems' feeble foundations and perverted ideologies.

Harun Yahya enjoys a wide readership in many countries, from India to America, England to Indonesia, Poland to Bosnia, Spain to Brazil, Malaysia to Italy, France to Bulgaria and Russia. Some of his books are available in English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Urdu, Arabic, Albanian, Chinese, Swahili, Hausa, Dhivehi (spoken in Maldives), Russian, Serbo-Croat (Bosnian), Polish, Malay, Uygur Turkish, Indonesian, Bengali, Danish and Swedish.

Greatly appreciated all around the world, these works have been instrumental in many people recovering faith in Allah and gaining deeper insights into their faith. His books' wisdom and sincerity, together with a distinct style that's easy to understand, directly affect anyone who reads them. Those who seriously consider these books, can no longer advocate atheism or any other perverted ideology or materialistic philosophy, since these books are characterized by rapid effectiveness, definite results, and irrefutability. Even if they continue to do so, it will be only a sentimental insistence, since these books refute such ideologies from their very foundations. All contemporary movements of denial are now ideologically defeated, by means of the books written by Harun Yahya.

This is no doubt a result of the Qur'an's wisdom and lucidity. the author modestly intends to serve as a means in humanity's search for Allah's right path. No material gain is sought in the publication of these works.

Those who encourage others to read these books, to open their minds and hearts and guide them to become more devoted servants of Allah, render an invaluable service.

Meanwhile, it would only be a waste of time and energy to propagate other books that create confusion in people's minds, lead them into ideological confusion, and that clearly have no strong and precise effects in removing the doubts in people's hearts, as also verified from previous experience. It is impossible for books devised to emphasize the author's literary power rather than the noble goal of saving people from loss of faith, to have such a great effect. Those who doubt this can readily see that the sole aim of Harun Yahya's books is to overcome disbelief and to disseminate the Qur'an's moral values. the success and impact of this service are manifested in the readers' conviction.

One point should be kept in mind: the main reason for the continuing cruelty, conflict, and other ordeals endured by the vast majority of people is the ideological prevalence of disbelief. This can be ended only with the ideological defeat of disbelief and by conveying the wonders of creation and Qur'anic morality so that people can live by it. Considering the state of the world today, leading into a downward spiral of violence, corruption and conflict, clearly this service must be provided speedily and effectively, or it may be too late.

In this effort, the books of Harun Yahya assume a leading role. By the will of Allah, these books will be a means through which people in the twenty-first century will attain the peace, justice, and happiness promised in the Qur'an.

# Dear Kids!

A special chapter is assigned to the collapse of the theory of evolution because this theory constitutes the basis of all anti-spiritual philosophies. Since Darwinism rejects the fact of creation—and therefore, Allah's existence—over the last 150 years it has caused many people to abandon their faith or fall into doubt. It is therefore an imperative service, a very important duty to show everyone that this theory is a deception. Since some readers may find the opportunity to read only one of our books, we think it appropriate to devote a chapter to summarize this subject.

All the author's books explain faith-related issues in light of Qur'anic verses, and invite readers to learn Allah's words and to live by them. All the subjects concerning Allah's verses are explained so as to leave no doubt or room for questions in the reader's mind. the books' sincere, plain, and fluent style ensures that everyone of every age and from every social group can easily understand them. As a result of their effective, lucid narrative, they can be read at one sitting. Even those who rigorously reject spirituality are influenced by the facts these books document and cannot refute the truthfulness of their contents.

This and all the other books by the author can be read individually, or discussed in a group. Readers eager to profit from the books will find discussion very useful, letting them relate their reflections and experiences to one another.

In addition, it will be a great service to Islam to contribute to the publication and reading of these books, written solely for the pleasure of Allah. the author's books are all extremely convincing. For this reason, to communicate true religion to others, one of the most effective methods is encouraging them to read these books.

We hope the reader will look through the reviews of his other books at the back of this book. His rich source material on faith-related issues is very useful, and a pleasure to read.

In these books, unlike some other books, you will not find the author's personal views, explanations based on dubious sources, styles that are unobservant of the respect and reverence due to sacred subjects, nor hopeless, pessimistic arguments that create doubts in the mind and deviations in the heart.

www.harunyahya.com - en.harunyahya.tv

# Contents

Faruq and the Termites

Asad and the Colorful Butterflies

The Woodpecker and Irfan

Jalal and the Seagull

Kamal and the Glow-worm

Ahmad and the Green Frog

Hameed and the Long-Legged Stork

Nabeel and the Seal

Amir and the Chameleon

Tariq and the Dog

Farhan and the Horse

Antar and the Kangaroo

Zaki and the Spider

Farooq and the Duck

Ali and the Ostrich

Kashif and the Honey-Loving Bear

Aisha and the Porcupine

Mansoor and the Giant Polar Bears

Omar and the Fish

Rashad and Tawfiq

Appendix: The Lie of Evolution

# Faruq and the Termites

It was a bright, sunny Sunday. Faruq had gone to the forest for a picnic with his teacher and his classmates.

Faruq and his friends began playing hide and seek.

Suddenly Faruq heard a voice crying, "Be careful!" Faruq began looking to right and left, unsure of where the voice was coming from. But there was nobody there.

Later on he heard the same voice again. This time it said, "I'm down here!"

Right next to his foot Faruq noticed an insect that looked very much like an ant.

"Who are you?" he asked.

"I'm a termite," the tiny creature replied.

"I never heard of a creature called a termite," mused Faruq "Do you live alone?"

"No," replied the insect, "We live in nests in big groups. If you like I'll show you one."

Faruq agreed, and they moved off. When they arrived, what the termite showed Faruq looked like a tall building with windows in it.

"What's this?" Faruq wanted to know.

"This is our home," the termite explained "We build these ourselves."

"But you are so small," objected Faruq. "If your friends are all the same size as you, how can you possibly make something as enormous as this?"

The termite smiled. "You're right to be surprised, Faruq. For little creatures like us to be able to make places like this really is very surprising. But don't forget, this is easy for Allah, Who created us all."

"What is more, besides being very tall, our homes have other very special features to them as well. For example, we make special children's rooms, places for growing mushrooms and a queen's throne room for our homes. and we don't forget to make a ventilation system for our homes. By doing this we balance the humidity and temperature inside. and before I forget, let me tell you something else, Faruq, we are unable to see!"

Faruq was amazed "Although you are so tiny you can hardly be seen, you still build homes just like the tall buildings people make. How do you manage to do all this?"

The termite smiled again "As I said before, it is Allah Who gives us these extraordinary talents. He created us in such a way that we are able to do all these things. But now Faruq, I must go back home and help my friends."

Faruq understood: "OK, I want to go and tell my teacher and my friends what I've learned about you right away."

"Good idea, Faruq" waved the little termite, "Look after yourself. Hope to see you again."

# Asad and the Colorful Butterflies

At the weekend, Asad went to visit his grandfather. the two days passed very quickly, and before Asad knew it his father had arrived to take him home. Asad said goodbye to his grandfather and went to sit in the car. He was looking out of the window as he waited for his father to collect his things. A butterfly sitting on a flower a short distance away fluttered its wings and flew to the car window.

"You're going home, aren't you, Asad?" asked the butterfly in a tiny voice.

Asad was astonished "Do you know me?" he asked.

"Of course I do," smiled the butterfly. "I've heard your grandfather telling the neighbors about you."

"Why didn't you come and talk to me before?" Asad inquired.

"I couldn't, because I was in a cocoon up a tree in the garden," explained the butterfly.

"A cocoon? What's that?" asked Asad, who was always a curious boy.

"Let me explain from the beginning," said the butterfly as it took a deep breath. "We butterflies hatch out of the egg as tiny caterpillars. We feed ourselves by nibbling leaves. Later we use a liquid which comes out of our bodies like thread and wrap ourselves up in it. That little package we weave is called a cocoon. We spend a while inside that package as we wait to grow. When we wake up and come out of the cocoon we have brightly colored wings. We spend the rest of our lives flying and feeding ourselves from flowers."

Asad nodded thoughtfully "You mean all those colorful butterflies were once caterpillars before they grew wings?"

"Can you see the green caterpillar on that branch?" asked the butterfly.

"Yes, I see it. It's nibbling away hungrily at a leaf."

"That's my little brother," smiled the caterpillar "In a while he'll weave a cocoon too, and one day he'll be a butterfly like me."

Asad had lots of questions to ask his new friend. "How do you plan this change? I mean, when do you come out of the egg, how long do you stay as a caterpillar and how do you make the thread to weave your cocoons?"

"I don't plan any of it at all," explained the butterfly patiently. "Allah has taught us what we need to do and when we need to do it. We just act in the way our Lord wills."

Asad was really impressed. "The patterns on your wings are wonderful. and all butterflies have different patterns, don't they? They are really colorful and eye-catching!"

"That's a proof of Allah's incomparable artistry. He created us one by one in the most beautiful way possible," explained his friend.

Asad agreed enthusiastically: "It's impossible not to see the beautiful things Allah has created. There are hundreds of examples all round us!"

The butterfly agreed: "You're right Asad. We need to give thanks to Allah for all these blessings."

Asad looked over his shoulder: "My father's coming. It looks like we're about to set off. It was really great to meet you. Can we talk again when I come next week?"

"Of course," nodded the butterfly. "Have a safe journey home."

# The Woodpecker and Irfan

That Sunday, Irfan went for a walk in the woods with his father. While he was walking, he was thinking about how beautiful the trees and all of nature were. His father then bumped into a friend, and as the two grown-ups were chatting Irfan heard a sound:

Tap, tap, tap, tap, tap, tap...

The sound was coming from a tree. Irfan walked up to the bird that was making it and asked:

"Why are you hitting the tree with your beak like that?"

The bird stopped what it was doing, and turned to look at Irfan. "I am a woodpecker, " it answered. "We make holes in trees and build our nests in them. Sometimes we store our food in these tree holes. This is the first hole I've ever made. I will make hundreds more like it though." Irfan looked closer at the hole. "Fine, but how do you store food in such a small place?" he wondered.

"Woodpeckers mostly eat acorns, and acorns are quite small," the woodpecker explained. "Inside each hole I make I'll put one acorn. That way I'll be able to store enough food for myself."

Irfan was puzzled: "But instead of struggling with lots of small holes," he said, "you could make one big one and store all your food there."

The woodpecker smiled: "If I did that, other birds would come and find my food store and steal my acorns. But the holes I make are of different sizes. When I put the acorns I find into the holes, I store them according to their size. the size of the acorn exactly matches the hole I put it into. That way the acorn fits tightly into the hole. Because Allah created my beak so that I can take the acorns back out of the holes easily, I can take them from the trees without any problem. But other birds can't do that, so my food is safe. of course, I don't have the brains to think all that out. I'm only a woodpecker. Allah makes me do these things. It is Allah Who taught me how to hide my food and Who created my beak in the right way for me to do it. Really, it isn't just me—all living creatures are able to do the things they do because that is what Allah taught them."

Irfan agreed: "You're right. Thank you for telling me all that... You reminded me the great power of Allah."

Irfan said goodbye to his little friend and went back to his father. He was very happy because wherever he looked he could see another of Allah's miracles.

# Jalal and the Seagull

When he was traveling by ferryboat in hot weather what Jalal liked to do best was to sit outside on deck. That way he got a closer view of the sea and could look around more easily. One day Jalal boarded the ferryboat with his mother. Right away he went and sat down on deck. A group of seagulls were following the ferryboat as though they were racing one another. the seagulls put on a wonderful display, swirling and turning in the air, and fought one another over pieces of bread thrown to them by the passengers.

One of the seagulls glided slowly down and landed on the seat next to Jalal.

"How did you like our flying display?" it asked. "I noticed that you were watching us very carefully. What's your name?"

"My name's Jalal. Yes, I was really enjoying watching you flying. I see you can stay up in the air without flapping your wings at all. How do you do that?"

The seagull nodded its head. "We seagulls position ourselves according to the direction of the wind. Even if there is very little wind, rising air currents lift us up. We make use of this movement, and we can make long journeys without flapping our wings at all."

"We move backwards and forwards inside the masses of air rising up from the sea," it went on. "These currents mean that we always have air under our wings, and that allows us to stay up in the air without using up too much energy."

Jalal was still not sure he quite understood: "I saw you up there in the air without moving your wings, just as if you were hanging there. and you do all this by acting according to the direction of the wind? I can see that, but how do you calculate the strength of the wind and which direction it will come from?"

"It's impossible for us to do that from our own knowledge," began the seagull. "When He created us Allah taught us how to fly and how to hang in the air without wasting energy. These are examples given us so that we can realize Allah's existence and understand His power."

Jalal thought of another question: "Yes, you stay hanging in the air as though you were held up there by a string... to be able to do this you'd need to know math very well and be able to make detailed calculations, but you do it without any problem right from the first time you fly, don't you?"

"Absolutely," the seagull agreed. "Our Lord gave every living creature the inspiration it needs. We all do what we are told to do. Never forget that Allah embraces everything and keeps everything under His control. He is the Lord of all things. You can find a lot of verses about this in the Qur'an. the ferry is approaching land now, and I'm going to fly off to join my friends. See you again..." Jalal watched his new friend fly away, growing smaller and smaller in the distance.

When he arrived home Jalal looked for a verse in the Qur'an about everything being under Allah's control. He found it in the Surah Hud, and learned the verse by heart right away:

[Hud said,] "I have put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord. There is no creature He does not hold by the forelock. My Lord is on a Straight Path." (Surah Hud: 56)

# Kamal and the Glow-Worm

On summer evenings Kamal and his family used to eat their evening meals in the garden. One summer evening, as they were getting up from the table, Kamal saw a light going on and off amongst the trees at the edge of the garden. He went over to the trees to see what was going on, and he noticed an insect flitting about. But this insect was very different from those he was used to seeing in the daytime. It was giving off light as it flew.

The insect stopped flying for a moment, and came up to Kamal. "Hello," it said. "You look very surprised. You've been watching me for a long time. My name's Glow-Worm, what's yours?"

"My name's Kamal. You're right, I've never seen an insect that flickered with light in the way you do before. Yellowish green rays are coming from your body. I remember that once when I touched a light bulb it burned my hand. Doesn't having this light coming from your body hurt you?"

The glow-worm nodded. "You're right, Kamal, when you say that lamps are really very hot while giving off light. Light bulbs use electrical energy to produce light, and some of that energy turns into heat. That causes the bulb to become hot. But we do not take energy from outside for the light that our bodies give off."

Kamal thought he understood. "So does that mean you don't get hot?" he asked.

"That's right," agreed the glow-worm. "We produce energy ourselves and we use this energy very carefully. That means that none of our energy is wasted and it doesn't produce heat which would damage our bodies."

Kamal considered for a moment, "That's a really well thought out system."

"Yes, it is," agreed his friend. "When Allah created us He planned everything we need in the best possible way. When we're flying we beat our wings very quickly. of course, that's a job which needs a lot of energy. But because our light doesn't use up much of our energy we have no problem with it."

Kamal had something else he wanted to ask, "What do you use the light you give off for?"

His friend explained: "We use it both to pass messages amongst ourselves and to defend ourselves. When we want to say something to one another we talk by flickering our lights. At other times we use it to frighten our enemies and keep them away from us."

Kamal was very impressed by what his friend had been telling him: "So everything you need is inside your own bodies, and there's no need to tire yourselves out!"

"That's right," the glow-worm agreed. "Despite all their best efforts, scientists have been unable to develop a system quite like ours. As I said before, Allah created us in the most beautiful way and in the way most suited to our needs, just like all other living things."

Kamal smiled. "Thank you. What you have told me is very interesting. I now realize what the verse I read yesterday means, 'Is He Who creates like him who does not create? So will you not pay heed?' (Surat an-Nahl: 17) When you think of all the living things Allah created and ourselves, there are plenty of examples to take heed of!!"

"Yes Kamal, every living thing is a proof of the superior creative art of Allah. Now, whenever you look at anything, you will be able to see this. Now I should go. But don't forget what we have been talking about!"

Kamal waved his friend goodbye: "It was nice to have met you. Hope to see you again..."

On the way to home, reflecting on the amazing signs of creation in the glow-worm, Kamal was eager to tell his family about his conversation with his little friend.

# Ahmad and the Green Frog

At the weekend Ahmad went fishing on a lake with his father. While his father was preparing the rods, Ahmad asked him for permission to wander round a little. His father allowed him to do this on condition that he did not go too far away.

Ahmad began walking amongst the thickets at the edge of the water. A frog jumped out suddenly from between two bushes and landed on a stone right in front of him.

"You nearly trod on me!" complained the frog.

"I'm sorry," said Ahmad. "You are exactly the same color as the leaves, so I didn't notice you, little frog. My name's Ahmad and I'm taking a walk."

The frog smiled: "Pleased to meet you, Ahmad. It's quite normal that you didn't notice me. I live among these bushes and my color matches the leaves. That way my enemies can't spot me any more than you could. I can hide from them very easily."

Ahmad thought for a moment: "Yes, but what if they do see you? Then what do you do?"

"If you look carefully," said the frog, holding up a foot, "You'll see there are webs between my toes. When I'm jumping I open my toes out and that way I can glide in the air. Sometimes I can fly as much as 40 feet (12 meters) in a single bound."

"What about when you want to land?" wondered Ahmad.

"I use my legs when I fly. I use the webs on my feet like a parachute to slow myself down when I land," the frog explained.

"That's very interesting," mused Ahmad. "It never occurred to me before that frogs can fly."

The frog grinned: "Some species of frog can fly as far as they can swim. This is a blessing our Lord gave us. Allah created our colors to camouflage us in the surroundings we live in. That allows us to survive. If Allah hadn't created us like this, we'd soon have been killed off by other animals."

Ahmad saw the point: "The webs between your toes are necessary for you to be able to jump long distances. I don't have webs on my feet because I don't need them. the needs of every living creature are different, aren't they?"

"Yes, you're right, you put it very well."

Ahmad answered: "Allah created us in the best way to make our lives easier. We should be very grateful to Him for that."

"Right again, Ahmad," agreed his friend. "Our Lord created all living things according to the environment they live in. He gave us everything we need when we were born."

"Yes," said Ahmad. "Now, little frog, I have to go, otherwise my father will be wondering what's happened to me. It was great talking to you. If I come here another time, I'll visit you again."

"I shall look forward to that. Nice to have met you. Goodbye, Ahmad..." croaked the frog as it hopped back into the bushes and disappeared from sight.

# Hameed and the Long-Legged Stork

Hameed was a very intelligent and cheerful boy. He was very interested in birds and wanted to get to know all of them well. He somtimes looked after birds in his house, but later let them go. He took great pleasure in their free lifestyles. One morning in spring, Hameed saw a flock of long-legged birds all flying together and right away he went out onto the terrace of his house to watch them more closely. When he got outside he saw that two of these birds had landed on the chimney and he was very happy to see them. He waved and called out to them:

"Hello, I'm Hameed. Who are you?"

"Hello, Hameed. I hope we're not giving you any trouble by landing here. We'd like very much to talk to you and get to know you," said one of the pair.

"By all means," said Hameed: "I love all birds very, very much. Can you tell me a bit about yourselves, please?"

"Of course," replied the first bird. "We are storks. We are migrating birds with big snow-white wings between 3.5-5 feet (one and one-and-a-half meters) long and long black tails. It is the red color of our beaks and our long legs that give us such an attractive appearance."

Hameed agreed. "You really do look lovely!"

"What people notice most about us is our flying style," continued the stork. "We fly with our beaks stretched forward and our legs stretched out behind. This makes us able to fly much faster by using the air."

Hameed was curious, "And where are you traveling now?"

"Every year we migrate in large flocks, Hameed, because we can't live in cold places. In doing this we also bring people the good news that warm summer days are on the way. During the summer we live right across a huge area that stretches from Europe to North Africa and from Turkey to Japan. When the weather starts to get cold we migrate to the southern hemisphere, to tropical Africa and India."

Hameed was puzzled, "But how do you know when the weather begins to get colder?"

The stork smiled: "That really is a very good question. of course, the answer is that Allah taught us. All at the same time we feel a need to move to warm countries. Allah makes us feel that. It is Allah Who shows us the way to fly, and when fall comes again He makes sure we can return over a distance of thousands of miles and find our old homes again. It is Allah with His inspiration Who teaches us all these things."

"It really is very interesting that you can travel such long distances and return and find your old nests without making a mistake, as though you had a compass in your hands," said Hameed, impressed.

The stork went on, "Of course this kind of powerful memory and wonderful direction finding ability are the result of Allah's supreme creation, Who gave them to us."

Hameed had another question for his new friend, "You live close to human beings, don't you?"

"Yes," replied his friend. "We make our nests on the roofs of houses. and we build nests on the top of trees and chimneys..."

The other stork then stood up and said, "Sorry, Hameed, we have to be on our way again."

Hameed watched his new friends grow smaller and smaller as they flew on their way.

# Nabeel and the Seal

Nabeel was watching television after returning home from school one day. There was a documentary program on one channel. Nabeel enjoyed watching documentaries about animals he had never seen in real life. This time the program was about seals. Nabeel sat forward and began watching with interest.

But suddenly he felt cold. He looked round and realized that he was now inside the TV picture. Right beside him was the seal he had just seen on the screen!

"Hello!" he said, shivering a little, to the seal. "It's very cold here, don't you feel it?"

"You must be new here!" answered the seal. "It's always cold. It's 23 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 5 degrees Celsius) at its warmest, even in spring. That suits me just fine because we seals love the cold. We never feel it. How come? Because of our fur, this wonderful coat that Allah has given us! of course the fat in our bodies also helps protect us against the cold."

"Is that your mother over there?" Nabeel pointed to a much larger seal some distance away. "I think she's looking for you. Call her and let her know where you are if you like..."

The seal went on: "We seals live in big herds and, yes, we look very much like one another. But our mothers never confuse us with any other seal. This is an ability that Allah has given them. As soon as her baby is born, the mother gives him a welcome kiss. Because of this kiss, she recognizes his smell and never gets him mixed up with any other baby. This is one of Allah's countless blessings He has given us. We are grateful to our Almighty Lord because He gave our mothers this ability to recognize us amongst the crowds we live in."

Nabeel had something else he wanted to ask: "I remember reading that you spend most of your time in the water. So how did you learn to swim?"

His new friend explained: "Allah created all of us according to the conditions we live in and made us ready for them. Just as He created the camel according to the conditions of the desert, He created us according to these cold conditions. It is Allah's will that when we are born our bodies have a layer of fat called baby fat. Our little bodies stay warm by means of this fat. and because the fat layer is lighter than water it acts as a kind of lifebelt when our mothers are teaching us to swim. After two weeks of swimming lessons we become really great swimmers and divers."

"So, Allah created a special lifebelt inside your bodies for you so you can learn to swim! How wonderful!"

"That's right," said the little seal. "Every living thing He created so perfectly is a proof that Allah has power over everything."

Just at that moment Nabeel was awakened by a warm kiss on the cheek from his mother. the documentary on the television was still going on. Nabeel remembered the dream he had just had and smiled at the little seal on the screen.

# Amir and the Chameleon

On a school trip one day, Amir left his friends and began to wander about amongst the trees. As he was leaning against a tree and resting, a voice came from a log on the ground.

"Hello Amir," said the voice, "Are you tired out?"

Amir couldn't believe his ears. When he looked carefully at the log, he noticed a creature that was so close to it in color that he had difficulty in telling which was which.

"Who are you?" he asked. "I had real trouble spotting you—your color and the color of the log you're sitting on are exactly the same!"

"I'm a chameleon," said the creature, which rather resembled a lizard. "I change my color according to my surroundings to protect myself from danger."

"How do you manage such a wonderful thing?" asked Amir, intrigued.

"Let me explain," said his new friend. "I have special coloring substance called 'chromatophore' in my skin. This allows me to change my color to match my surroundings. This color change comes about through the distribution and collection of various substances and pigments in my nervous system. So even though I move very slowly, I can live unnoticed and safely wherever I may be. of course, this ability was given to me by our Almighty Lord, Who provides us with everything we need."

Amir was not sure he quite understood, "Could you please tell me a bit more about how you change color?"

The chameleon took a deep breath and nodded: "When I'm sitting on a leafy branch in daylight I turn green with black and brown markings, like the shadows on the branches around me. When it's dark I'm completely black. I can carry out all these color changes within 15 minutes. When I'm angry though, I develop dark orange spots and dark red markings as a warning to other animals."

"That is really unbelievable!" cried Amir. "I wonder what else is special about you?"

His friend smiled happily. "My eyes move independently of one another. I can look backwards and downwards. of course, I wouldn't have had any of these characteristics if Allah had not wanted me to. Allah created me and gave me everything I need to survive."

Amir looked a bit closer. "It's quite hard to make your eyes out."

"So that my eyes don't attract the attention of enemies, Allah covered them completely with scales so they look like the rest of my head. As you can see, Allah created me in the best possible way to deal with whatever might happen to me."

"From now on," said Amir, "I'll look more carefully at things around me. I won't forget to pray to our great and powerful Lord when I see the clear proofs of His existence in nature. Thank you."

"Bye bye, Amir!" said the chameleon as it disappeared back into its surroundings once more.

# Tariq and the Dog

Tariq had gone to play at the house of his classmate, Kashif. When Kashif's mother called him downstairs for something, Tariq was left alone in the bedroom. At that moment Kashif's dog came into the room. It was such a lovable dog, and it was as though it was asking, "Don't you want to play with me?"

"Hey, come on then, let's have a game," said Tariq, jumping to his feet.

"Great, I'm very pleased!" said the dog, wagging its tail enthusiastically.

Tariq froze in astonishment. the dog was talking! This was an opportunity not to be missed. He began asking about the things he had always wondered about dogs.

"I've always wanted to know," he began, "How do you chew those hard bones we give you to eat?"

The dog smiled, revealing a row of sharp, white teeth. "Allah, Who has given all living things their own individual characteristics, has given us dogs different physical abilities from other animals. For example, we have more teeth than you do, 42 of them in fact, so we can chew our food, especially bones, very easily."

Tariq nodded: "You like running, jumping and playing as much as I do, don't you? How come you don't sweat?" he wondered.

Kashif's dog nodded in agreement: "We don't sweat like humans do to control our body heat because we have no pores in our skin. We have a respiratory system that controls our temperature instead. Our fur prevents heat from outside from reaching our skin. of course, when the temperature rises our body heat rises too, and when we become too hot we get rid of the extra heat by hanging our tongues out and panting, so even on hot days we don't sweat, in spite of our thick fur."

"Allah has given us such a wonderful system that while humans break out in a sweat after half an hour's exercise, we can run non-stop for hours without sweating at all. from now on you'll understand that when you see dogs with their tongues hanging out in hot weather there's no need to feel sorry for them. of course we dogs did not make this system for ourselves. This is one of the proofs of the supreme creative power of Allah, Who created everything in a totally original form."

"I believe your sense of smell is also very well developed," said Tariq as he stroked the dog's nose.

"You're right," the dog agreed. "We have a very strong sense of smell. the smell centers in our brains are 40 times more developed than human beings'."

"So when police dogs smell something just once they can go and find the owner!" exclaimed Tariq.

"Right again. You can see that the dogs you are used to seeing every day are proofs of Allah's creation, just like all other living things. Keep that in mind, and don't forget to remember Allah with thanks."

"Thanks a lot," said Tariq. "I won't forget. and I'll tell all my friends what you have told me about what Allah has given you, and ask them to thank Him too."

Just then Kashif came back into the room, and they all began to romp and play together.

# Farhan and the Horse

Farhan's sister wanted to learn horse riding. At the weekend the whole family went to a riding school. While his sister, his mother and his father were talking to the riding teacher, Farhan went to look at a horse which was eating grass.

"Hello!" said Farhan: "That grass you are eating looks very dirty and dusty. Doesn't it hurt your teeth?"

The horse looked up and whinnied happily. "No, my little friend. Our teeth help to break it down. Allah created very long teeth for us. These teeth have deep roots going right down into our jawbones. the root part of our teeth is much deeper than yours. When our teeth wear down the part inside the bone comes out. Every tooth can lose 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) without us losing the ability to eat."

Farhan considered a moment, "So as a result of that characteristic given to you by Allah, you're saved from losing your teeth in a short time and going hungry."

"You're dead right," agreed the horse. "Allah created every living thing according to the surroundings in which it lives. This is one of the proofs of His supreme creation. Every living thing on the face of the earth is in need of Him."

Farhan thought of the films he had seen about horses, "If I get on your back, you can carry me for miles, can't you?"

"Yes. No other animal has been as much help to human beings as we have. Nowadays, of course, there are streets and roads and moving vehicles on them. the truth is though that it is only in the past century that cars and other forms of transport have begun to serve people. When your great great grandfather was born, people didn't know there would be any such thing as a car. In those days, carrying people was the job of animals, especially we horses."

Farhan had a closer look at his new friend: "With those long legs, I'm not surprised you can travel long distances. Can you run fast as well?"

The horse gently raised a front leg: "Allah created my legs not just so that I could carry heavy loads but also so that I could run fast at the same time. We don't have collarbones like other animals. This means we can take longer strides."

Farhan thought it over, "So, Allah created you to carry heavy loads easily and to be able to run fast."

"Yes, Farhan," agreed his new friend. "Allah created us with these characteristics so we could be of use to people."

Farhan grinned back, "I'm sure what I have learned from you will be much more interesting for my sister than learning to ride, when I tell her about it!"

"Bye bye, little friend," said the horse through a mouthful of delicious hay.

# Antar and the Kangaroo

When Antar learned from a storybook he was reading that kangaroos bring up their babies in special pouches on their stomachs, he asked himself in surprise, "Do any animals really have pouches?" the kangaroo in the book then suddenly started hopping around on the page, and answered: "You're right to be surprised, Antar. But, yes, we kangaroos really have a pouch on our tummies, and this is where we feed, protect and rear our babies."

Antar had a close look and saw a lovable baby kangaroo poking its head from its mother's pouch in the picture.

"How did your baby get into the pouch, I wonder?" he asked the mother, who replied:

"When a baby kangaroo is born it is only one centimeter long. That tiny baby, which is still undeveloped, reaches the pouch after a 3-minute journey."

"That's very interesting," mused Antar. "How do you feed it in there?"

The mother explained patiently: "There are four different milk teats in my pouch. In one of these teats there is a warm milk ready to feed the baby. In the other three teats is milk which is not to feed the newborn baby but babies which are a bit older. After a few weeks the baby will leave the teat it feeds from at the beginning and start feeding from one more suitable for its age. When it gets a little bigger it will move on to the next one."

"Unbelievable!" cried an excited Antar. "How does a baby kangaroo that is only one centimeter long know how which teat to choose from? and how do you, the mother kangaroo, manage to put such different kinds of milk into those four teats?"

The mother kangaroo went on to explain: "The milk that feeds a newborn baby is warmer than the other kinds. the nourishment it contains is different, too. How do you think we mother kangaroos heat the milk in our teats? Don't forget, dear Antar, that it really isn't the mother kangaroos who do all this. We don't even know about the differences in the milk in our teats. It isn't possible for us to calculate the temperature of the milk. Neither do we know that each type of milk has different characteristics, nor what food it contains. We just live the way Allah inspires us to. Allah, Who created us, thought out the needs of our babies. Our Lord, with His infinite compassion and mercy, gave our babies milk of the most suitable kind and placed them in the best place for them, in the pouches of their mothers."

# Zaki and the Spider

Zaki was lying in the garden reading a book. His eyes strayed from the book he was reading, and as he looked around he saw a spider's web on the branch of a tree. He got up and went up to the spider's web which he began examining with interest. the spider, which was near the web, then spoke to him.

"Hello, friend!" it said in a tiny voice.

"Hello," replied Zaki, who was always very polite. "This web you have made is very interesting. How do you make one like this?"

The spider took a deep breath and began to explain: "I start by finding the right place for it. It must be in a corner or between two nearby objects. Let me explain how I make a web between two tree branches. First I fix the thread tightly to one end of the branch. Then I go to the other end while continuing to produce thread. When I reach the right distance I stop producing that thread. Then I begin to pull the thread back towards myself until it is tight and I fix it where I am. Then I begin to weave the web inside the arc I have thus made."

Zaki thought for a moment: "I'd never be able to do such a thing as fixing a string tightly between two walls. Isn't it difficult to keep the thread tight?"

The spider smiled at him "Let me explain how I solve the problem. Sometimes I make a web between two branches that are a long way from each other. Because such webs are very big, they are also really good at trapping flies. But because the web is big it loses its tightness over time. That also reduces my success in catching flies. I go to the center of the web and I fix a thread that reaches down to the ground. I attach a small stone to the thread near the ground. Then I return to the web and try to pull the thread upwards from where the stone is. While the stone is in the air I fix the thread again tightly to the middle of the web. As a result, because the stone below the center is pulling it downwards, the web tightens up again. That's all there is to it!"

"What a great method!" said Zaki, who was really impressed. "How did you learn such a technique, and how do you use it so well ? Spiders must have been doing this for millions of years..."

"You're right, my friend," agreed the spider. "It would be stupid to think that we have enough intelligence of our own to manage this. It is Allah, Who owns and creates everything, Who gives me the skill to use this technique."

"Don't forget, Zaki," the spider went on to remind him: "For Allah everything is very easy. Allah has the power to create an infinite variety of living things and places."

"Thank you for what you've told me," said Zaki, who was a very polite little boy. "I will now understand rather better how powerful Allah is and what superior knowledge He has every time I see the living things He created, and their flawless features."

# Farooq and the Duck

One day, Farooq's uncle took him somewhere he had been wanting to visit for a very long time. This was the zoo, where he could see in real life the animals he had always read about in books and magazines and watched on television. the journey was long, but fun. On the way his uncle explained to Farooq the signs of Allah in nature and gave examples from the Qur'an. At last they arrived at the zoo. Farooq's eyes widened in wonder. He had never seen so many different animals together in one place. When they came to the bird section Farooq left his uncle's side and went to the ducks' cage. "What a beautiful bird," he said about one of them. "Thank you," a voice answered; Farooq looked around, but there was nobody else there. Then he realized it was the duck he was looking at which had spoken.

"Hello," said the duck. "Thank you for your kind remark. As well as having a handsome appearance I have other interesting characteristics. Did you know that?"

Farooq answered in excitement, "No, but I'd really like you to tell me about them, please."

The duck settled down on a comfy branch and began: "Did you know we can fly very fast? When flying, ducks can travel at more than 30 miles (50 km) an hour. What's more, we continually change direction to avoid being caught by predators. and when we need to dive underwater we do it so quickly that we're a difficult target for hunters."

Farooq's eyes opened wide: "For a bird, that really is flying fast. You mean your enemies force you to fly that quickly?"

"Yes, Farooq," replied the duck: "Let me give you an example. Our friends the ice ducks are a regular target for an interesting hunting method used by seagulls. the seagulls attack them constantly from the air and make them dive underwater. They keep doing this until the ducks have to come to the surface, all out of breath and helpless. Then they hunt them by diving at them and pecking their heads. But the seagulls don't always win the battle. the ice ducks have their own special methods of protecting themselves. If they see a seagull in the sky they immediately gather together in large groups. This means that a seagull can't chase any individual one of that large number of diving ducks, and eventually it grows tired and gives up."

"How clever those ducks are!" marveled Farooq. "How are they able to do that?"

"The answer to that is obvious, Farooq," tutted the duck. "It is Allah Who created ducks and all other living things, and it is He Who teaches them how to protect themselves."

"Thank you so much, dear duck," said Farooq. "You've given me some very useful information today and reminded me of the signs of our Lord. See you later," he said, as he walked back to find his uncle.

# Ali and the Ostrich

Ali was eating and watching a cartoon on television at the same time. In the cartoon, there was a huge ostrich running away from a dog. the ostrich was running so fast that it escaped and went back to its friends in the nest. Ali had always assumed that ostriches were birds which just buried their heads in the sand. He didn't know they were such good runners, too.

"You mean you didn't know we could run fast?" asked a voice.

Ali looked around startled, before realizing that the voice was coming from the television. He went up to it and began to talk to the ostrich on the screen.

"You're a bird," he began. "Of course it surprises me that you can run so quickly. and with such a huge body, too."

"You're right," puffed the ostrich, which was still a little bit out of breath. "We're the biggest birds in the world. We're taller than people. Take me, for example, I'm about two and a half meters tall and I weigh 265 pounds (120 kg). We can't fly, but Allah gave us a different talent so that we can escape from our enemies. We run very fast with our long legs, so fast that nobody can catch us on foot. In the world of living creatures, we're the fastest runners on two legs. We can reach a speed of around 45 miles (70 km) an hour if we really go all out."

Ali had a closer look at his new friend: "Unless I'm very much mistaken, your feet have only two toes. Is that correct?"

The ostrich raised one foot for Ali to have a better look at: "Yes: We have only two toes on our feet. and one of those toes is much bigger than the other. We only run on our big toes. As you can see, Allah created us as He did all living things, from nothing and in a unique way. He gave us a number of characteristics to help us survive. We have a lot of very different characteristics from other birds you may know about..."

"That's very true," mused Ali. "I wonder how you bring your babies into the world."

"Well, Ali," replied the ostrich: "Just as we are very big, our eggs are very big too. We dig a big hole in the sand and we bury our giant eggs in it. We lay 10 or 12 eggs at a time and we have to make a hole big enough for them. In other words, we dig a very big hole indeed."

Ali considered for a second or two, "Why do you make these holes in sand?" he asked his new friend.

The ostrich smiled and preened its feathers: "If we made them in soil instead of sand, it would take a long, long time. It would also make us very tired. Moving sand is a lot easier than moving soil. You can even dig up sand with your fingers, but for soil you need a shovel. That's why we prefer sand. With sand we can do the job quicker and without tiring ourselves too much."

"After laying our eggs, it is also much easier to cover them with sand. You know, in the world there are millions of different kinds of living things. All creatures have their own wonderful characteristics. Allah created us all. It is Allah Who teaches us everything we do."

Ali stood up, as the program was coming to an end: "Meeting you has increased my love for and nearness to Allah even more. Thank you for what you have told me. Bye bye."

# Kashif and the Honey-Loving Bear

The same way he did every morning before going to school, Kashif sat down at the table for breakfast. While his mother was making the tea, Kashif's eye was caught by a picture of a bear on the honey jar. While his mother was busy, the bear in the picture winked at Kashif and spoke to him.

"Hello, Kashif! I reckon you must love honey as much as we bears do..."

"Yes," agreed Kashif. "My mother never forgets the honey at breakfast. But ours comes from jars from the supermarket. Where do you find yours from ?"

The bear wrinkled its nose before answering, "Our Lord, Who meets the needs of all living things in the best possible way, gave us bears long noses which are very sensitive to smell, and that allows us to find food easily."

Kashif, who had once been stung by a bee, was intrigued, "When you find a hive with honey in it, how do you get it out?" he wondered.

This time the bear held up a paw for Kashif to see. "When we find a hive we give it a couple of sharp knocks with our paws to chase all the bees away, and then we enjoy eating the honey inside. But whatever you do, don't try the same thing, or the bees will sting you everywhere and make you very, very ill. Thanks to our Allah, we bears are protected from their stings by our thick fur."

Kashif promised he would not: "There's something else I've been wondering about. Don't you bears ever get hungry during your winter sleep?" he asked.

The bear nodded its furry head: "Before we go to sleep for the winter we eat plenty of food. to build up the fat layer under our skin we eat lots of beech nuts and chestnuts. That way we store fat in our bodies, because we lose most of our weight by the time we come out of our shelters in the spring. But we survive even though we lose most of our body weight. of course we couldn't think of storing fat in our bodies before going to sleep by ourselves. Our eating plenty before sleeping is inspired in us by Almighty Allah."

"I see now," said Kashif, "that every living thing on the face of the earth is proof of Allah's supreme creation. Thank you for reminding me of that, my friend..." the bear nodded in agreement.

Kashif was then startled by his mother's voice telling him breakfast was ready. While he was enjoying his honey he thought about the bear and was grateful to Allah, the infinitely compassionate, Who has created bears so perfectly.

# Aisha and the Porcupine

While Aisha was having a picnic with her family one day she took herself off for a short walk. She liked the green area where she was walking very much indeed. While she was walking around she noticed a ball covered with sharp spikes. "It's a good job I didn't tread on that, otherwise the spikes could have hurt me badly," she said to herself. Then, to her amazement, the ball slowly unrolled and spoke:

"You're right, Aisha," it said. "I am a porcupine and I could have hurt you with my spikes even without wanting to."

"There's a porcupine here!" exclaimed Aisha happily. "Why is your body covered with sharp spikes like that?"

"Allah gave me these spikes to protect myself from my enemies" explained the porcupine. "When I'm in danger I roll up like a ball and the spikes protect me."

"I know some animals go to sleep during the winter. Do you?" she asked her new friend.

The porcupine nodded. "I can't say I like cold weather very much. As soon as the winter temperature drops below 55 degrees Fahrenheit (13 degrees Celsius) I go to sleep. Almighty Allah keeps me asleep throughout the winter and wakes me up when spring comes. It would be impossible for me to think for myself that winter conditions would be so severe that it would be better for me to sleep for a while to stay alive. In the Quran Allah says this: 'Among His Signs is your sleep by night and day and your seeking after His bounty. There are certainly Signs in that for people who hear.' (Surat ar-Rum: 23)"

"You see," it went on, "just like all living creatures, Allah tells us when is the best time to look for food."

Aisha thought for a moment: "In a documentary I saw you fighting fearlessly with a huge lion. How come you're not afraid of lions?"

Her friend replied: "Because of these spikes on my body, which Allah has given me as a blessing, I can set myself fearlessly against even the most dangerous of my enemies. When a lion attacks I first run away quickly. I suddenly stop in a good place, raise the back part of my body a little and point my spikes at it. If the lion tries to catch me with his teeth, my spines sink into his mouth and cheeks and open wounds which cannot be healed."

"Eventually, it comes to the point where the lion can't eat anything and finally he dies. of course this comes about through the intelligence and fighting technique our Almighty Lord has given me. It is He Who created me and gave me the best characteristics for me to stay alive."

"You're right, brother porcupine," agreed Aisha, as she had a closer look at the spines on its body.

"Every time I look at animals and the variety of what Allah has created, it helps me to see His greatness and the wonder of His creation. Thank you for the pleasant chat," she said, as she went back to join her family before they began wondering where she had got to.

"Goodbye, my friend," cried the porcupine.

# Mansoor and the Giant Polar Bears

Mansoor and his mother were trying to decide where to spend their summer vacation. His mother suggested they should go to a travel agency and decide by looking at the brochures promoting different countries, so they went to one together. As soon as they entered the office they were met with posters on the walls of places they had never seen. While his mother was talking to the clerks, Mansoor began examining the posters one by one.

Mansoor was startled by a voice coming from one poster he was standing next to:

"Hey, Mansoor, hello!" said a very deep voice. "Why don't you and your mother come here?"

Mansoor turned his head towards the voice. the speaker was the polar bear in the poster hanging right next to him.

"Hello!" he said. "I thought you were a giant snowman!"

The polar bear smiled happily: "You're right, with our huge bodies and our white fur, we do resemble snowmen. But I'm sure that with our 1,700 pound (800 kg) weight and 8 feet (2.5 meters) length we're a lot bigger than they are."

"I'd like to come and visit you and get to know you and your family better. But where you live is really cold."

"Right again," agreed the bear. "We live in the world's coldest regions such as the North Pole, Northern Canada, Northern Siberia and the Antarctic."

"Then how come you don't feel cold?" wondered Mansoor.

"Good question," said Mansoor's new friend. "Let me explain. Every aspect of our bodies is created according to the environment we live in. In spite of the freezing cold, the ice and the snowstorms, the thick layer of fat that Allah has miraculously created under our skins protects us from the cold. Our fur, which has also been specially created, is thick, dense and long, so we don't feel the cold at all. Allah created us according to the climate we live in. Have you ever wondered why we don't live in the deserts of Africa? Think about it! If we lived in the desert, we'd be overcome by the heat and die. This is one of the signs that Allah has created every living thing according to the environment where it lives."

Having found such a great opportunity to talk to a polar bear, Mansoor began asking everything he was curious about:

"I remember that most bears sleep in the winter. Do you polar bears do that, too?"

The bear shook its shaggy, white head. "No, my dear friend. We are different from other bears because we don't hibernate in winter. Only the females, especially those that are pregnant, do that."

"How do newborn babies find food?" Mansoor wanted to know.

"Thanks to our Lord, the Provider, the food the newborn babies need is all ready for them. the mother polar bear feeds the babies with her milk," explained the bear.

"So the cubs just feed on milk then?"

"That's right," answered the polar bear. "The mother bear's milk contains a very high level of fat. This fatty milk meets the needs of her cubs in the best possible way. With it the babies grow very quickly, and by the spring they're ready to come out of their dens."

"Mansoor, you will realize that because we live in an icy wilderness and are quite incapable of researching anything for ourselves we can't possibly know what food our babies need when they are first born. Also, it is quite impossible for us to produce this milk, which even the most modern factories can't produce, inside our bodies through our own wishes and our own efforts. This truth clearly shows us the wonder of Allah's creation."

"You're right, my friend," Mansoor agreed. "When a person thinks a little, he can see that there's a miracle happening around him at every moment."

The polar bear continued to talk about itself. Then it said:

"I have a question for you now. Did you know that polar bears are very good swimmers and divers?"

Mansoor was amazed: "You must be joking. You mean you can swim? With that heavy body of yours and in freezing water?"

"I'm not joking," said the bear. "We polar bears swim and dive very well. When we're swimming we use our front legs. Allah, the Infinitely Merciful, created our legs in such a way that they can be used like oars for us to hunt easily, and He gave us webs between our toes like those on a duck's feet. Also, to make hunting easy, Allah created us so that we can close our nostrils underwater and keep our eyes open."

"As you can see, Mansoor," he went on, "Allah has created us perfectly with systems which allow us to survive under really difficult conditions. It is not possible for us to have developed these characteristics gradually or for us to have acquired them accidentally. It is Allah Who taught us how we need to move in water."

"Don't you feel cold at all in the icy water?" asked Mansoor, shivering a little at the thought.

"Not at all," said the bear rather proudly. "If you humans put your hands or your feet on an iceberg you soon have to take them off again. We don't even notice the cold though, because Allah created us with our legs covered in thick fur so that they are not affected by the cold. If our legs were covered with skin like you, we would never be able to live in this cold environment."

After what the polar bear had told him, Mansoor understood more clearly that Allah possesses unlimited power and might. Then Mansoor remembered the holiday village where he had spent his vacation. He had swum all summer long, but the water was warm because of the mild climate. He thought and compared it with the cold water polar bears swim in, and it was obvious to him that Allah had created these animals in such a way as to make them resistant to cold water. Thinking about it, he realized that Allah created every creature with the ideal body for the environment in which it lives. For example, camels were created so that they can stand up to the heat of the desert. Mansoor's friend the polar bear then interrupted his thoughts:

"Mansoor, do you know why we are white or yellowish in color?"

"No I don't. I've never thought about it. Why?"

The bear explained. "This white color of ours ensures that we are protected from our enemies in the cold, icy environment we live in. We are almost invisible in the miles of white ice fields because we are the same color as them."

Mansoor was impressed. "How logical!" he said. "If you were as black as a crow or as colorful as a parrot then it would be impossible for you to hide. and that would mean you would often be in danger."

"Yes, Mansoor. There are so many things which people never think about and which they have become accustomed to seeing. In fact Allah has created everything according to His Divine wisdom."

Mansoor felt very grateful to Allah for having given him the power of thought and understanding. "If Allah had not willed it, I might be wasting my time in the temporary life of the world in ignorance of His supreme knowledge and power," he said to himself.

Thinking about his conversation with the polar bear, Mansoor realized how important life was. Every new piece of information he learned increased Mansoor's love and awe of Allah. Because of this he wanted to know even more about polar bears.

"I'm sure your nose is more sensitive to smell than ours, isn't that right?" he wondered.

The bear nodded its head again. "Yes. Our sense of smell is so acute we can easily detect a seal hiding under a one and a half meter layer of snow. As you know, Almighty Allah gave not only us but all living things the superior characteristics they possess in the same way."

Mansoor went on: "I knew that there is proof of Allah's supreme knowledge and power in every living thing on the face of the earth. Still, gaining detailed information about these living creatures further increases my astonishment at Allah's supreme creation."

Mansoor could not get enough of talking to his new friend the polar bear. He wanted to learn everything there was to know about him. He had more and more questions to ask:

"What other characteristics do you have that I don't know about?"

"Let me think," said the bear. "We polar bears have interesting tactics that we use in winter and summer. Now think about our white fur which makes us resemble snowmen. Do you think that if we lay down in white snow we would be visible? If you only considered our white fur, then you would probably say, 'No, you wouldn't be noticed,' but don't forget that we polar bears have black noses. Our noses prevent us from being completely camouflaged amongst the snow. So, what do we do? We very cleverly cover our noses with our white front paws. That way we hide the color difference. We wait completely hidden in the snow for our prey to approach us."

Mansoor cried in amazement: "That really is very clever!"

"Yes, Mansoor. Bears know that they can camouflage themselves, in other words hide themselves, because their white fur and the snowfields around them are the same color. But they go even further and even think of covering their black noses, which are the only obstacle to their being camouflaged since they are the only thing that stands out against the whiteness of the snow. of course, as you can guess, it isn't possible for polar bears to think about what needs to be done after they come back from hunting with no food a few times and realize that they need to cover their noses! Bears only behave as Allah inspires them to behave. Allah created them in this way. In the end they, like other living things, are all under Allah's control."

Mansoor decided to tell his mother what he had learned about polar bears on the way home and to explain the creative art of Allah visible in them. He thanked his friend for that fascinating conversation, and went back to his mother.

# Omar and the Fish

One day, Omar and his father got up before daybreak and went fishing. Omar liked watching the sun rise while fishing with his father. In the mornings the sky looked fantastic and the sunrise filled his heart with the same excitement every time he watched it...

While his father was replacing the bait on the hooks, Omar sat at the side of their little boat and watched the sea. Suddenly he heard a voice from behind him:

"Good morning little friend!" it said, in a bubbly kind of way.

"Hey, good morning to you too, little fish," said Omar. It looks like you got up early too and went swimming. I've always wondered—I've only just learned to swim but you fish can swim as soon as you're born. How do you manage that?"

"To tell you the truth," said the fish, "we fish do not need to move much to be able to swim; just swishing our tails from side to side is enough. We live comfortably in the water because of our flexible backbones and the various systems inside our bodies."

"You must have a great time swimming around in the water," mused Omar.

"Very true," his new friend agreed. "But remember, our bodies have been specially created to let us do that. Just think, do you find it easier to walk in water or on dry land? We fish have been created with special muscles and backbones to be able to live and swim in water. Our backbone keeps us straight and also connects our fins and our muscles. Were it not for that it would be impossible for us to live in water. You see, little friend, like every other living thing, Allah has created us fish faultlessly and has given us the best possible characteristics for the environment we live in."

"You don't just stop at swimming left and right, sometimes you go down into the depths of the water. How do you do that?" asked Omar.

"We do that due to a different bodily system that Allah has given us fish," replied his friend. "A fish has air sacs in its body. By filling these sacs with air we can go down to the depths, or head straight for the surface by emptying them. of course we would never have had the power to develop these characteristics by ourselves unless Allah had willed that it should be so."

While his father got on with jobs at the stern of the boat, Omar continued his conversation with the fish:

"I'm thinking about very crowded places. Everybody has to move left or right at the same time, and if it's dark it's impossible for anybody to move without bumping into other people. How do you fish manage to get over that problem?"

The little fish set about explaining: "To avoid bumping into others around you, you have to see what's there, whereas we fish have no need of such a visual system. We have a perfect sense organ called the "lateral line." We can feel the slightest change in pressure that may take place or ripple in the water, or the smallest disturbance in its flow, right away because of special sensors on our lateral line. By sensing vibrations we know when an enemy or an obstacle is present without actually seeing it with our eyes. These detectors are particularly sensitive to nearby low frequency vibrations. For example we can perceive footsteps on the shore or anything thrown into the water right away, and behave accordingly."

Omar nodded enthusiastically: "Now I understand. I can sing or play the radio out of the water and it doesn't make you uncomfortable, but at the slightest vibration I make in the water, for example if I shake the jetty or throw a stone into the water, you all disappear!"

His new friend went on: "Omar, this system of ours, which scientists call the fish lateral line, is really a very complex structure. It is not possible for such a system to have developed by chance or accidentally or step by step over a period of time. All the elements in these systems must have come into being at the same time, otherwise the system would not work."

Omar looked more closely at the fish, noticed it had no eyelids and asked in surprise:

"You don't have any eyelids. How do you protect your eyes?"

"You're right," answered his friend. "We fish don't have eyelids like people do. We see the world through a delicate membrane over our eyes. You can compare this membrane to a diver's goggles. Because we mostly need to see objects which are very near us, our eyes have been created for this purpose. When we need to see into the distance, the whole lens system is moved back by a special muscle mechanism inside the eye. Even the little eyes of us fish have a complex structure. There is no doubt that this is another of the many proofs of Allah's supreme creation."

Omar remembered a TV documentary he had watched the day before. He had seen a shoal of fish of different colors and shapes. He thought that the wonderful colors of the fish and their extraordinary characteristics were very fine proofs of Allah's supreme creation. His clever little friend the fish continued to give him information about itself:

"Did you know, little friend, the bodies of most of us fish are covered with a very strong skin?"

Omar thought for a moment or two: "Yes, you have a scaly skin, I've seen that. But it doesn't look very thick."

"This skin is made up of an upper and lower layer," explained the fish. "Inside the upper skin are glands which produce a material called mucus, which helps to reduce friction to the lowest level when we're moving in the water. That allows us to move faster. Also, its slipperiness makes it very difficult for enemies to catch us. Another characteristic of mucus is that it protects us against illness."

Omar agreed: "Yes, I once tried to take hold of the fish in my father's bucket with my hand but they slid out of my hand again right away!"

The fish smiled: "The special things about our skin don't stop there. In our upper skin there is a special layer made of keratin. Keratin is a hard, tough material which is formed by the death of old cells in the lower level that lose contact with their sources of food and oxygen."

"This layer made of keratin prevents water from entering the body and is useful in balancing inside and outside pressure. If this layer did not exist, water would get into our bodies, the pressure balance would be destroyed and we would die right away."

Omar was again impressed, "What important characteristics the skin of a fish—which nobody ever thinks about—has!"

"You're right," agreed the fish. "Omar, as you can see, it is Allah, Who created everything, Who gives fish all their characteristics. Allah is aware of the needs of all living things."

Omar heard his father's voice from the stern of the boat:

"Come on, Omar, time to go home!"

Omar stopped for a moment to say goodbye to his little friend: "Thank you for the information you have given. Every time I see a fish I'll remember Allah's supreme creation once again and thank our Lord for all the blessings He has given us."

# Rashad and Tawfiq

Rashad and Tawfiq were friends. Rashad's grandmother lived in the same district as Tawfiq's family. Because Rashad stayed with his grandmother for part of the mid-term and summer holiday each year, they were able to spend a long time together.

Their first term at school had come to an end. Everybody had got their reports and Tawfiq and his friends began to enjoy their holidays. But because the weather was very cold they weren't able to go outside much during the first few days of the holiday. They still managed to get out occasionally, however, saw their friends and played games, even if only for a short time. Sometimes, too, they met in the house of one of their friends and chatted while eating the cakes and cookies his mother had prepared.

But although a week had passed, Tawfiq had not seen Rashad. He asked his other friends if they had seen Rashad. They all said they hadn't seen Rashad since the start of the school holiday either. Tawfiq thought he probably wasn't going out because the weather was so cold, even though he knew that normally he would go out even if it snowed because Rashad loved playing with snow. He decided to phone him.

As soon as he got home he went straight to the telephone and called Rashad's grandmother's house. His grandmother answered the phone and recognized Tawfiq's voice right away.

"I haven't seen Rashad since school came to an end," explained Tawfiq. "I was worried. I thought I'd come round and see him tomorrow but I decided to phone first."

Rashad's grandmother explained that Rashad had not come to stay with her because he was ill. He had very bad flu and had to spend the holiday lying in bed and resting. "I'll give you his telephone number," she said. "He'll be very pleased to hear from you."

Tawfiq took the number down and called Rashad that very minute.

Rashad's mother answered. She said, "Rashad, your friend Tawfiq's calling," and gave the telephone to Rashad who was lying down in his bedroom.

Rashad picked up the phone and told Tawfiq: "I'm very pleased you called. It's very nice to hear your voice."

Tawfiq told Rashad that he had been worried because he hadn't seen him during the holiday and after waiting a few days had called his grandmother and been very sorry to learn that he was ill.

Rashad explained that he had caught a very bad dose of flu at the start of the holiday and that he had to stay at home because the doctor had told him to stay indoors, rest and not go anywhere until he was completely better, so this was how he was spending the holiday.

"Get well soon," said Tawfiq. "I'm very sorry for you. I hope you'll get better quickly." He told him that all his other friends in Tawfiq's neighborhood were wondering about him too. Afraid of tiring Rashad, he didn't want to talk on the telephone for too long.

Rashad said: "I'm very glad you called. Say hello to my friends and don't forget to call again."

Again Tawfiq told him to get well soon and hung up. He was very unhappy because his friend was ill and had to spend his vacation in such a way.

When his mother saw he was unhappy she asked him what the matter was. Tawfiq told her about his friend's problem. "Who knows how bored he is having to spend his vacation like that. I wonder what else I can do for him," he said.

His mother thought for a moment: "They don't live very far away. You could go and visit him. Rashad's mother is an old friend I haven't seen for a long time. I could go and see her at the same time."

"That would be great, Mum. When can we go?" exclaimed Tawfiq delightedly.

"Call Rashad and ask when's a good time," his mother told him.

The next morning Tawfiq called Rashad early. He told him that he wanted to visit him with his mother and asked when would be a good time.

Rashad was very happy and told him his mother would be as well. He said they would be expecting them the next day.

Tawfiq and his mother set out early the following morning. After a few hours' journey they arrived at Rashad's house. Rashad's mother met them cheerfully. "I was very pleased when I heard you were coming," she said. "It's really good of you to come all this way."

All together they went up to Rashad's room. He greeted them happily from his bed. After asking how he was and chatting for a while, their mothers left the boys together.

Then something attracted Tawfiq's attention. In spite of having to stay in bed and spend the vacation lying down, Rashad was very cheerful. He didn't seem to be sad about his condition at all.

"I thought I'd find you very bored and unhappy," he said. "If it was me, spending my holiday like this would make me very sad indeed, but I can see that you're pretty cheerful. You don't seem to be bothered at all."

"You're right," agreed Rashad. "In the first days that was just what I thought and I was very unhappy. I was so unhappy that I couldn't stop myself from crying from time to time. My cousin Ali who came to visit me was very upset when he saw the state I was in. He visited me again a few days later when I was a bit better. He had a book with him. He told me he hadn't finished reading it and that would give it to me when he had, but he wanted to read the part he had already finished to me."

"When I said I would like to hear it, he read me that part. the book explained that Allah has created everything for a specific purpose, and that there is good even in things that look bad at first sight. It said that people who believe in Allah and trust in Him should act in the knowledge that there is very definitely a blessing in everything."

"It gave a lot of examples of this. One of these was about being ill. What it said affected me very much. As it said in the book, even the simplest of illnesses, like flu, show how powerless people actually are. Flu is caused by a tiny virus that can't be seen with the naked eye. But this tiny virus robs a person of his strength and makes him have to go to bed. He reaches a point where he can't walk or even talk. A person can't do anything except lie down and wait to get better."

"You're right," agreed Tawfiq. "When that happens all you can do is take your medicine and wait to get better."

Rashad went on talking:

"When we become ill we realize what a great blessing health is. When a person is in good health and can walk, run and play with no difficulty he should think about illness and be grateful to Allah. When you get up in the morning, being able to walk, run and do whatever you want whenever you want without anybody's help is a great gift from Allah. As it said in the book, by creating illness Allah made people think and notice this."

"Yes, what you're saying is quite right," nodded Tawfiq.

Rashad continued with his explanation: "When I started thinking like that I wasn't unhappy any more. I'm very pleased because I'm slowly starting to get better. I'll be completely better by the time school starts again. Then I'll take even more pleasure from being well and being able to run and play."

At that point Tawfiq's mother came into the room and told him it was time to go.

"I want to read that book too. Will you send it to me when you've finished it?" asked Tawfiq.

"Of course," said Rashad. "I'll send it on to you as soon as I finish it."

On their way back home Tawfiq thought again about what Rashad had said. He was pleased to see him happy and to listen to what Rashad had told him. He said to himself, "Being healthy really is a great blessing and when I get back I'm going to tell all my friends about it."

# Appendix: The Lie of Evolution

In this section of the book, we will examine some ideas held by evolutionists, who do not believe in Allah's existence and who try to deceive others by claiming that everything came into being by itself, by coincidence.

But when someone attempts to deceive someone else, the truth will always come out in the end. If the person involved is intelligent, he will always be aware he is being lied to. and because evolutionists tell lies they are inconsistent. In the following pages we will see how irrational their claims are, and how their deceit has been revealed.

## What Is the Theory of Evolution?

The theory of evolution is one of those mistaken ideas put forward by people who do not believe in the existence of Allah. It was Charles Darwin who originally proposed this theory, some 150 years ago. According to this illogical theory, everything came into existence by spontaneous, accidental occurrences. For example, according to Darwin, one day, fish turned into reptiles by chance. Another day, another chance event occurred and a reptile turned into a bird and started to fly. As for human beings, evolutionists (those who believe that Darwin was right) falsely claim that they are descended from apes. There is absolutely no truth to this claim. the only truth is that Allah created us, all other living things, the world, and the universe. Darwin and others who have made his claim have told a great lie.

Atoms are the smallest particles of which all matter, animate and inanimate, is made up. This means that everything around you, including yourself, has been formed by the coming together of millions of atoms. Evolutionists say that atoms decided by chance to come together, and that living things thus came into being. According to this illogical claim, one day, a violent wind or a hurricane arose and these atoms all joined together.

According to Darwin's scenario, these atoms joined up to make cells. As you know, every living thing is made up of cells. These then combine to make our eyes, ears, blood, heart, and in short, all of our bodies.

You should keep in mind that cells are very complex systems. In every cell, there are many different organelles. We can compare the cell to an enormous factory. In a cell, there are manufacturers, transporters for the materials, entrance and exit gates, production centers, message carriers, energy control centers, etc. Is it possible for a factory to come into existence all by itself, with stones, soil and water coming together after a storm, and for all of this to happen by chance? of course not! Everyone would laugh at such a ridiculous claim. Nevertheless, evolutionists make a claim that is just as ridiculous by saying, "The cell formed by chance."

Evolutionists would have us believe that these cells formed living things when they came together by some kind of chance.

## Let Evolutionists Carry out an Experiment!

Let evolutionists get hold of a huge barrel. Allow them to put inside this barrel all the atoms that they wish. Permit them to put inside the barrel whatever else their hearts desire. Let them put inside the barrel all the raw materials necessary to make a living thing. Then they can either warm up or electrify this barrel. Allow them to do whatever they want, and as much as they want. They can keep watch over the barrel for millions of years. (They can hand this task down to younger evolutionists, as one lifetime will not be nearly long enough for the job.)

What would happen as a result of all this?

Do you think that cherries, melons, strawberries, plums, violets, roses, elephants, giraffes, lions, lambs, rabbits, bees, cats, dogs, squirrels, and fish could possibly emerge from this barrel? Could a person who thinks, who becomes happy or excited, who enjoys listening to music and reading books possibly step out of it? of course not! Neither could anyone like the professors keeping watch over the barrel emerge. Not only could not one single professor not emerge, but not even one of the trillions of cells in such a professor's body.

Atoms are lifeless. Can lifeless matter come together to produce a living, laughing, thinking being?

Of course not; no living thing could ever emerge from that barrel. Because living things aren't made up of pieces of lifeless matter coming together by chance. Allah created all living things. Allah created humans, mountains, lakes, lambs, lions and flowers when there was nothing at all in existence, and He has created everything from nothingness just by giving the command "Be!"

## How, According to Evolutionists, Do Living Things Evolve?

Allah created all species, and not one of these species can evolve from another. This is because each species has its own unique characteristics.

However, the theory of evolution is wrong in its claim that that living things evolved over time, developed different features and changed into other creatures. You've all seen turtles, lizards, snakes; evolutionists make the nonsensical claim that these reptiles changed by chance and turned into birds.

So, what are these events that they claim caused the reptile to change into another creature? Evolutionists believe that evolution takes place as a result of two separate events that occur simultaneously, called "mutation" and "natural selection." This, actually, is an illogical belief and one which has no scientific basis.

## What Is Natural Selection?

The simplest explanation of natural selection is that the fittest creatures survive, while the weak disappear. Let's explain this with an example: Think of a herd of deer, which are often attacked by wild animals. When that happens, the deer will start to run fast, and only the fastest running and most agile deer will survive. Gradually, weak and slow deer will completely disappear, as the predators hunt them down. There will only be healthy and strong deer left. Therefore, after some time, the herd will only consist of fit deer.

What we have said so far is quite correct, but these things have nothing to do with evolution. In spite of this, evolutionists believe that such a herd of deer could gradually develop into another kind of animal, giraffes for example. You can see how wrong they are! No matter how fast a deer runs, or how far it extends its neck upwards, it cannot turn into another creature, a lion or a giraffe, for example. This can only happen in fairy tales. You probably all know the story about the frog that turns into a prince. the only time a frog can turn into a prince is in a fairy tale. However, in real life it is impossible for a deer to change into a lion or another living thing. and yet evolutionists still keep insisting that they can!

What Does Mutation Mean?

Mutations are the adverse changes that take place in a living body. Radiation or chemical substances cause mutations. the effects of radiation and chemical substances on living things are always harmful. Nearly 60 years ago, during the Second World War, an atom bomb was dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima. the atom bomb spread radiation around the area, and this caused terrible harm to people. the radiation caused most of the people exposed to it either to become seriously ill or else to die. Moreover, it destroyed some of their bodily systems, and this in turn caused their children to be born either sick or crippled.

So, with such disastrous events in mind, this is what evolutionists would have us believe: One day a fish undergoes a mutation; for example, it is affected, as the people of Hiroshima were, by being exposed to radiation or something similar. As a result of this mutation, some changes take place in the fish's body and, one day, it turns into a crocodile. This is a totally ridiculous claim. Furthermore, as we mentioned above, mutations are always harmful to living creatures. They either cripple them or make them very sick.

We can compare evolutionists' claims with the following example: If you took hold of an axe and hit a black and white television with it, could you change that television into a colour one? of course not! If you randomly hit a television with an axe, you will merely end up with a smashed set. In the same way that hitting something haphazardly with an axe will inevitably damage it, so mutations harm living beings.

## Fossils That Evolutionists Just Can't Seem to Find

A fossil is a part of an animal or a plant that has been dead for a very long time—usually thousands or even millions of years. It is preserved in rock formations in the earth's crust. In order for a plant or an animal to become a fossil, it must be buried almost immediately after it dies. For example, if there were a bird on the ground and a heap of sand suddenly fell on it and killed it, the remains of this bird could be preserved for millions of years. Similarly, there is a resin of some trees that becomes fossilized by geological processes, in which case it is then called "amber." On occasions in the past, this resin trapped insects, as it flowed down the tree trunks. It then solidified, and the amber and the insects inside it have been preserved without damage for millions of years, right up until today. This helps us to learn a lot about creatures that lived long ago. Such preserved remains of one species or another are called fossils.

## What Does "A Transitional Form" Fossil Mean?

The most important falsehood that evolutionists invent is that of "transitional forms." In some evolutionist books, these are sometimes called "intermediate transitional forms."

As you know, evolutionists claim that creatures evolve from each other. They also maintain that the first creature came about by chance. They would have us believe that gradually that creature changed into another, and that other creature turned into yet another, and so on. Evolutionists say that fish, for example, are descended from a creature that resembled a starfish. This means that one day, due to mutation, a starfish lost one of its arms. Over the next millions of years it lost more of its arms, except for some that started developing into fins of their own accord. Meanwhile, and simultaneously, all the other changes that are necessary for a starfish to turn into a fish took place. (Nothing like this could ever have happened, of course, but we are just reminding ourselves of what evolutionists would have us believe!) According to evolutionists, the starfish had to go through many phases to turn into a fish.

So, these imaginary creatures in their transformational stages are called intermediate species in the process of so-called evolution. Again, according to the illogical claims of evolutionists, all of them must have some vestigial or not yet fully formed body parts. For example, the intermediate species which allegedly formed while fish were turning into reptiles must have "half-grown" feet, fins, lungs and gills. We must remember that if such strange creatures had actually lived in the past, we would certainly have found fossil remains of them. It is interesting that so far not one fossil has been found of the intermediate species that evolutionists claim to have existed.

Creatures did not evolve from each other. the truth is that they were all brought into being at some instant, with all their features in tact and with no imperfections. They are no different to members of their species which are alive today. Allah created them all.

## What Happened During the Cambrian Period?

The oldest fossils of living things date from the time known as the Cambrian period, some 500 million years ago. the creatures that lived during the Cambrian period also prove that the theory of evolution is completely wrong. How is that?

These creatures appeared all of a sudden during the Cambrian period. Before them, no other living things existed on the planet. the fact that these creatures appeared out of nowhere and all of a sudden is proof that Allah created them in a single instant. If the theory proposed by evolutionists were right, then these creatures must have evolved gradually from simpler ancestors. However, these creatures have neither ancestors nor any transitional forms that lived before them. There is absolutely no trace of any such organisms anywhere in the fossil record. Fossils show us that these creatures—just like all other living things—suddenly appeared during the Cambrian period, with all their features in tact, but with no alleged evolutionary ancestors from whom they evolved behind them. This is clearest proof that Allah created them.

For example, there used to be a creature called the trilobite that lived during the Cambrian period, although we can no longer see them now because they are extinct. the trilobite had very complex, but perfect eyes. These were made up of hundreds of honeycomb-shaped cells, and these cells allowed it to see very clearly. It is clear that living things with such wonderful features could not possibly come into existence spontaneously by chance.

## The Falsehood That Fish Changed into Reptiles

Evolutionists say that reptiles evolved from fish. According to them, one day, when food in the sea was scarce, fish decided to look for some on land, and when they were there, they changed into reptiles to be able to survive on land. As you can see, this is an absurd idea, because everybody knows what would happen to fish if they emerged onto the land: They would die!

Have you ever been fishing? Just think! What would happen if a fish took the bait and was hooked on your line and you saved its life and brought it home to have a rest in your backyard? As we have just said, it would die. If you were to go fishing again, and this time caught many fish and brought them all back to your backyard, then what would happen? the same thing: they would all die!

Yet evolutionists refuse to agree. They say that one of the fish in your backyard suddenly started changing while it was waiting to die, and that it turned into a reptile and continued living! That is totally and completely impossible!

It can never be possible because there are a lot of differences between fish and land creatures, and all of these changes cannot just happen suddenly, by chance. Let us list just a few of the things that fish would need to survive on land:

1. Fish use gills to breathe in water. However, on land they cannot breathe with their gills and so they would die if they left the water. They would need to have lungs. Let us just suppose that a fish made up its mind to leave the water and live on dry land: where would it get lungs from? Furthermore, it has no idea of what a lung even is!

2. Fish do not have a kidney system like ours, but they would need one to live on land. If it decided to move onto dry land, it is very clear that a fish would not be able to find kidneys for itself anywhere.

3. Fish do not have feet, which is why they could not walk when they reached the shore. Just how did the first fish that decided to emerge onto dry land find feet for itself? As this is impossible, it is obvious that evolutionists are wrong about this as well.

These are just three of the hundreds of things that fish must have had in order to survive on land.

## About the Fish Called the Coelacanth

For years, evolutionists used to describe a fish called "the coelacanth" as a transitional form that almost made it ashore. In all their books and magazines they portrayed this fish as proof of their theory. They thought that the coelacanth had long since become extinct. That is why they made up a series of false stories when they examined the fossils of this fish.

Then, just a few years ago, a fisherman caught a coelacanth in his net. Since then, many others have been caught. It became obvious that the coelacanth is a normal fish. Furthermore, it wasn't preparing to come ashore, as evolutionists claim. Evolutionists were saying, "This fish lived in very shallow water, and so it was getting ready to go ashore." In reality, the coelacanth lived in very deep water. It wasn't a transitional form as evolutionists wanted us to believe. It was a real fish. Many more evolutionists' false ideas have since been exposed!

## The Claim That Birds Evolved from Reptiles Is Untrue

Another false statement that evolutionists make is about how birds came into existence.

Their tall tale is that reptiles living in trees started to jump from tree to tree, and while they were jumping, they developed wings. Yet another tall tale is that some reptiles trying to catch flies used to run and flap their forearms, and that these forearms turned into wings.

Isn't it ludicrous to imagine a dinosaur developing wings while running? Things like this only happen in stories or in cartoons.

There is an even more important subject. These evolutionists say that this big dinosaur developed its wings when it was trying to catch flies. Well, then how did the fly itself take to the air? Where did its wings come from? When they were trying to explain how a gigantic dinosaur could fly, shouldn't they first have explained how a tiny insect was able to? of course they should.

But this is the point that evolutionists will never be able to explain. the fly is one of the best flying creatures on earth. It can flap its wings 500 to 1000 times per second. As you know, it can maneuver in the air with great ease. No matter how many stories evolutionists tell, they still cannot explain how birds' wings came into being. the truth is this: Allah has created the wings of birds and flies, together with their ability to fly.

Archaeopteryx, Which Evolutionists Call A Transitional Form, Was in Fact A Fully Fledged Bird!

Let us just give you a few of the many differences between reptiles and birds.

1. Birds have wings, but reptiles don't.

2. Birds have feathers, but reptiles have scales.

3. Birds have a unique skeletal system and their bones are hollow. This makes them lighter and makes it easier for them to fly.

These are just a few differences that immediately come to mind. There are many other differences between these creatures.

If a species of reptile had turned into birds, there ought to have been many creatures that had lived in between the reptiles and the birds representing the phases of this change.

Fossil hunters should have been able to come across at least one of these fossils. That is, there must have been creatures with half wings, half-feathered and half-scaled bodies, and half-beaks and half-mouths, and their fossils should have been found, but no such creature has ever been located among the many fossils on Earth. Those fossils that are found belong either to a complete reptile, or else to a complete bird. This means that birds did not evolve from reptiles. Allah created birds, just as He has created all other living things.

However, since evolutionists don't want to accept this, they try to convince people that what they say is true by inventing stories. They found the fossil of a bird called Archaeopteryx, which lived approximately 150 million years ago, and claimed that this bird was a transitional form between dinosaurs and birds. Yet saying that Archaeopteryx was the ancestor of birds is completely illogical.

Archaeopteryx was a fully fledged bird!

Because:

1. Archaeopteryx had feathers, just like the birds of our own time.

2. Archaeopteryx had the same chest-bone, to which its wings were attached, as other flying birds.

3. Archaeopteryx cannot be the ancestor of all birds, because fossils of birds that are older than it have been found.

## The Tall Tale of Human Evolution

Evolutionists maintain that humans evolved from apes, and that apes are therefore our ancestors. Neither Darwin nor any other evolutionists have ever had any proof to back up that claim, which is a complete fabrication.

In fact, one of the reasons that the theory of evolution was thought up in the first place was to try to make people forget that Allah created them. If people believe that they came into existence by chance and that their ancestors were animals, then they will feel no responsibility towards Allah. In turn, this causes them to forget all their religious values and become selfish. Selfish people lose such good feelings as love for their people and their families. You see, evolutionists try to turn people away from such feelings, and that is why they try to spread the theory of evolution. Their aim is to make people forget Allah, so they tell everyone, "Allah did not create you. You are descended from apes, in other words, you are an advanced animal."

In truth, Allah created human beings. Compared to other living things, the human being is the only creature that can speak, think, rejoice and take decisions, is intelligent, can establish civilizations and can communicate at an advanced level. Allah is the One Who has given all these features to human beings.

## Evolutionists Cannot Offer Any Proof to Support Their Claim That Human Beings Are Descended from Apes

In the field of science, it is very important to produce "proof." When you make a claim, and if you want others to believe it, then you have to show some proof. For example, if you introduce yourself to someone and say, "My name is Omar" and that person says, "I do not believe that your name is Omar," then in that case you would have to have some proof that your name really was Omar. What could your proof be? an ID card could represent proof, or a birth certificate, or passport, or maybe your school report card, among other things. If you show one of these to that person, he will believe you are who you say you are.

Now let us give a scientific example. There was a scientist called Isaac Newton who lived in the eighteenth century and who discovered gravity. When people asked him what made him so sure he replied: "When an apple falls off a tree, it falls to the ground. It doesn't stay in the air." That meant that there is a force pulling the apple to the ground, a force called "gravity."

Therefore, evolutionists have to show some proof to make their theories believable. For example, the theory of evolution maintains that man is descended from apes. We therefore need to ask them: Where did you get this idea from, and where is your proof?

If man's ancestors were indeed apes, we should expect to find the fossils of creatures that were half-human and half-ape as confirmation. However, no such fossil has ever been discovered. We have only found the fossils of humans or of apes. This means that evolutionists have absolutely no proof that apes were man's ancestors.

However, evolutionists still try to mislead people with their theories.

## Some Tricks of Evolutionists:

1. Evolutionists talk about the fossils of extinct ape species as if they belonged to creatures that were half-human and half-ape.

You have surely seen pictures like the one above somewhere. Evolutionists use these to try to deceive people. the truth is that such creatures have never existed. In the past, there were humans and there were apes, just like today, and these were and are totally separate from and unrelated to one another. None of the half-ape, half-human creatures shown in the drawing on the previous page has ever existed. It can never have happened. As we stated earlier, not one fossil has been found to prove that claim.

However, evolutionists constantly try new tricks on this topic. For example, while handling a fossil that belongs to an extinct species of apes, they claim it actually belonged a creature that was somewhere between apes and humans. As people are often not well informed about this topic, they are prone to believe what evolutionists say.

2. Evolutionists treat the fossils of human beings from different races as if they were actually half-ape, half-human creatures.

As we know, there are many different ethnic groups in the world: Africans, Chinese, Native Americans, Turks, Europeans, Arabs and many others. Obviously, people belonging to different ethnic groups sometimes have different features. For example, the Chinese have almond-shape eyes, and some Africans have very dark skins and very curly hair. When you see a Native American or an Eskimo, you immediately know that they belong to a different ethnic group. In the past, there were many other ethnic groups and some of their features were perhaps different from those of people today. For example, the skulls of people belonging to the Neanderthal race were bigger than the skulls of people living today. Their muscles were also a lot stronger than ours.

Evolutionists, however, use the differences between this race and ours as a way to deceive people. They say, for instance, when they find a Neanderthal skull, "This is the skull of man's ancestors who lived tens of thousands of years ago." Sometimes the fossil skulls found are smaller than the average skull size of human beings today. Pointing to such a skull fossil, evolutionists will say, "The owner of this skull was just at the point of changing from an ape into a human."

In reality, even today there are people belonging to different ethnic groups who have smaller than average skulls. For example, the skull volume of Native Australians (Aborigines) is quite small, but this does not mean that they are half-ape, half-human. They are normal human beings, just like you and everyone else.

Consequently, we can see that the fossils evolutionists portray as proof of human beings having evolved from apes either belong to earlier species of apes or human races that are now extinct. This means that half–human, half-ape creatures have never existed.

## The Biggest Difference

The biggest difference between apes and human beings is that humans have souls and apes don't. Humans have consciousness: they think, speak and convey their thoughts to others in rational sentences, make decisions, feel, develop tastes, know about art, paint, compose songs, sing and are full of love and moral values. All of these faculties are unique to the human soul. Only human beings have these unique features. Evolutionists are unable to answer this question. In order to resemble a human being, an ape would have to go through many physical changes and would have to have the other faculties unique to human beings. Is there any force in nature that can give such abilities as painting, thinking or composing to any ape? of course not! Allah created only humans with such abilities, and He has not given animals any of these faculties. As we have seen, it is totally impossible for an ape to turn into a human being. Human beings have been human from the day they were created. Fish have always been fish, and birds have always been birds. No creature is the ancestor of another. Allah is the Creator of all human beings and all other living things. the reason that evolutionists claim that the human beings are descended from apes is the physical resemblance between the two. However, other creatures on Earth resemble humans even more closely. For example, the parrot seen in the picture can talk. Octopuses have eyes just like those of human beings. Cats and dogs listen to and follow orders, like a person. What would you think if someone said that human beings were descended from dogs, parrots, or the octopus? You see, there is no difference between this ludicrous idea and the stories that evolutionists fabricate.

## Allah Is the Creator of All

Our Lord is the One Who has put billions of pieces of information into a place so small that we cannot even see it without special equipment.

Allah is the One Who has created us, our eyes, our hair and our feet.

He is also the Creator of our families, parents, brothers and sisters, friends and teachers.

Allah is the One Who has created the food that we love, jams, cereals and pasta, and also the fruits and vegetables that make us healthy and strong. If Allah had not created it, we would never know what strawberry tasted like.

Allah has also given us the senses of taste and smell. If He had not given us these faculties, we would not have been able to taste the things that we eat. It would have been the same whether we ate a potato or a cake. Allah hasn't just created delicious and beautifully scented foods, He has also given us the faculties that allow us to enjoy them.

You like some things, and you enjoy them and think of them as fun. It could be a dessert that you enjoy eating, a game that you enjoy playing, or an outing with people you love. Whatever it is, you must never forget that Allah is the One Who makes it possible for you to enjoy such things.

Since Allah is full of compassion for you, He always gives you pleasant and beautiful things.

To begin with, there was a time when you did not exist. Just think, you were nowhere before you were conceived. You were nothing. Allah created you. He made you out of nothing.

We must therefore be grateful to Allah for each moment of our lives. In everything that we enjoy and love, we must remember Allah, and say, "O Allah I am forever grateful to you for all your blessings." If we find ourselves in a situation that we do not like, we should again pray to Allah, because He is the only One Who can put things right.

Allah always hears our prayers and responds to them. Allah knows what we are thinking in the depths of our hearts; He hears and answers every prayer.

What we have to do is to offer our joyful thanks to our Lord Who created us, the world and all the blessings it contains. and knowing that Allah is always with us, and that He sees us and listens to us at every moment, we must always be on our best behavior.

Glory be to You!  
We have no knowledge except what You have taught us.  
You are the All-Knowing.  
(Surat al-Baqara: 32)

# Picture Details

http://harunyahya.com/en/books/1621

S:11

Everything in the heavens and the earth glorifies Allah... (Surat al-Hadid, 1)

S:12

Do you not see that Allah sends down water from the sky and by it We bring forth fruits of varying colors? and in the mountains there are streaks of white and red, of varying shades, and rocks of deep jet black. and mankind and beasts and livestock are likewise of varying colors. Only those of His servants with knowledge have fear of Allah. Allah is Almighty, Ever-Forgiving. (Surah Fatir: 27-28)

S:18

Do they not see the birds suspended in mid-air up in the sky? Nothing holds them there except Allah. There are certainly Signs in that for people who believe. (Surat an-Nahl: 79)

S:19

Dear children, have you heard of a kind of bird known as megapode? When these birds have chicks to raise, it is always the male birds which look after them. First the mother bird digs a big hole to lay her eggs in. After she has laid her eggs, the male has to keep the nest at a temperature of 92 degrees Fahrenheit (3 degrees Celsius). In order measure the temperature of the nest the male bird buries its beak in the sand which covers it, using its beak like a thermometer. the bird repeats this operation over and over again. If the temperature of the nest goes up, it immediately opens air holes to bring the temperature down again. Also, the bird's beak is such a delicate thermometer that if somebody throws a handful of soil on top of the nest and the temperature rises even the tiniest bit, the bird can detect this. Such measurements are only possible for us to make by using a thermometer, and yet megapodes have been doing this for centuries, and never make the slightest mistake. This is because Allah taught them everything, and it is the Almighty Allah Who created a beak with the sensitivity of a thermometer.

S:22

He is Allah—the Creator, the Maker, the Giver of Form. to Him belong the Most Beautiful Names. Everything in the heavens and earth glorifies Him. He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. (Surat al-Hashr: 24)

S:23

The Red Sea lies between two deserts. No rivers or other running fresh water drain into it. In other words, there is no transfer of oxygen or nitrogen. Normally this sea would be a barren desert like the lands which surround it, yet it contains corals of all kinds. the corals which manage to live here in spite of the difficult conditions are able to do so because of the symbiosis (the way they live together with other living things) they have established with other creatures resembling plants, called algae. the algae hide themselves from their enemies within the coral reefs and use sunlight to perform photosynthesis. the harmonious lifestyle of these two creatures is yet another proof of Allah's wondrous creation.

S:26

THE WEBBED FEET of FROGS

One of the striking creatures which Allah has created is a kind of frog that lives in virgin forests. the most interesting characteristic of this little tree frog, which has thin legs and webs between its toes, is that it can use its legs to fly by gliding. When it flies from trees it uses its legs like parachutes when it wants to soften its landing. By opening the webs between its toes it doubles the surface area of its body. Flying frogs can glide through the air for up to 40 feet (12 meters) before landing in a tree. By moving their legs and changing the shape of their webbed feet they can even control the direction they fly in.

S:30

There is no creature crawling on the earth or flying creature, flying on its wings, who are not communities just like yourselves–We have not omitted anything from the Book–then they will be gathered to their Lord. (Surat al-An'am, 38)

S:33

... If you tried to number Allah's blessings, you could never count them... (Surah Ibrahim: 34)

S:34

Among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and earth and all the creatures... (Surat ash-Shura: 29)

S:35

RESISTANT SEALS

The waters of the ocean are very cold, especially in the depths. For this reason Allah created seals, which live in cold water, with a thick layer of fat beneath their skin. This layer prevents the seals from losing their body heat quickly. Another interesting thing about seals is that the females produce the richest, the most nourishing milk known in nature. This milk makes the babies they raise under difficult conditions grow very quickly.

S:37

That is Allah, your Lord. There is no god but Him, the Creator of everything. So worship Him. He is responsible for everything. Eyesight cannot perceive Him but He perceives eyesight. He is the All-Penetrating, the All-Aware. (Surat al-An'am: 102-103)

S:39

Mankind! You are the poor in need of Allah whereas Allah is the Rich Beyond Need, the Praiseworthy. (Surah Fatir: 15)

S:42

OUR VERY DEAR FRIENDS

It is He Who created everything on the earth for you... (Surat al-Baqara: 29)

S:43

DOGS, the EXPERT SNIFFERS

Dogs have an extraordinary sensitivity to smells. When roaming in the street they find the smells left by other dogs, and those which are peculiar to people, and they learn things about them. They can detect the slightest scent in the air without any difficulty at all. Bloodhounds, a breed of dog which has a particularly strong sense of smell, can track people from places where they have left no visible trace, follow a trail that is four days old and find the scent of people more than 80 kilometers away.

S:46

It is He Who created all the species and gave you ships and livestock for you to ride. (Surat az-Zukhruf: 12)

S:47

THE SPECIAL CARE TAKEN BY MOTHER PANDAS

Mother pandas look after their babies very well. Baby pandas need special protection because when they are born they cannot fend for themselves. If an enemy attacks a baby panda its mother will bite it with her powerful jaws and try to protect the baby that way. However, when mother pandas hold their babies in their mouths they can be extremely gentle. It is Allah Who teaches pandas how they need to behave, Who created them and Who knows best what they need.

S:51

Say: "If all the sea was ink to write down the Words of my Lord, it would run out long before the Words of my Lord ran out," even if We were to bring the same amount of ink again. (Surat al-Kahf: 109)

S:56

Is He Who creates like him who does not create? So will you not pay heed? (Surat an-Nahl: 17)

S:60

DO FISH FLY?

Flying fish do not fly with wings like birds, they just glide on their fins, which resemble wings. They can reach speeds of up to 35 miles (56 km) an hour. These small fish can also move more quickly in water by spreading their fins and lifting their tails out of the water. This allows them to glide on the surface.

S:61

DID YOU KNOW?

THE BOOBY the SWIMMING BIRD

The booby, a species of deep-diving seabird, has large webbed feet. These feet have been given to it by Allah so that it can swim on the surface of the water or underwater. Boobies dive as well. They dive into the sea to catch fish with their beaks, and mostly stay under water for a long time without coming out and swimming long distances.

S:64

The seven heavens and the earth and everyone in them glorify Him. There is nothing which does not glorify Him with praise but you do not understand their glorification. He is All-Forbearing, Ever-Forgiving. (Surat al-Isra: 44)

S:72

We have given all kinds of examples to people in this Qur'an, so that hopefully they will pay heed. (Surat az-Zumar: 27)

S:74

The Originator of the heavens and earth. When He decides on something, He just says to it, "Be!" and it is. (Surat al-Baqara: 117)

S:77

[People with intelligence are] those who remember Allah, standing, sitting and lying on their sides, and reflect on the creation of the heavens and the earth [saying,] "Our Lord, You have not created this for nothing. Glory be to You! So safeguard us from the punishment of the Fire." (Surah Al 'Imran: 191)

S:89-90

Colorful Creatures Under the Sea

How Do Fish Breathe Underwater?

The respiratory system of fish is different from that of all other living things. People have noses to breathe with, and fish have gills. With these they use the oxygen in the water. the water they continually take in passes in through the mouths of the gills and out again. Very fine veins in the gills remove the oxygen in the water and replace it with the carbon dioxide in the body. Most fish have nostrils, but these are never used for respiration. the nostrils have tiny sacs in them, which fish use to smell the water which flows around them. For example, sharks use smell to locate their prey.

S:99

Lifeless matter can never come together by chance to form a living creature. Allah has created the universe and all living things from nothing.

S:101

There are countless species of living things in the world. Evolutionists will never be able to explain how these various species came to be. This is one of the best examples of Allah's creative artistry.

S:103

....He has no partner in the Kingdom. He created everything and determined it most exactly. (Surat al-Furqan: 2)

S:104

Under the layers of the earth's crust we can find the remains of creatures that lived in the past. These remains are called fossils and they disprove all the claims made by evolutionists.

A fossil snail

A fossil spider

Allah created every animal from water. Some of them go on their bellies, some of them on two legs, and some on four.....

S:105

..... Allah creates whatever He wills. Allah has power over all things. (Surat an-Nur: 45)

S:106

Evolutionists claim, for example, that starfish developed over millions of years and turned into fish. According to this claim, there should be many "transitional forms" to be found between starfish and fish. But no fossil of such a transitional form has yet been found. There are starfish and there are fish in the fossil record, but there is no transitional form made up of strange-looking combinations of both.

S:107

Living Fossils Refute Evolution

Fossils are proof that evolution never happened. As the fossil record shows, living things came into being in a single moment, with all the characteristics they possess and never altered in the least for so long as the species survived. Fish have always existed as fish, insects as insects and reptiles as reptiles. There is no scientific validity to the claim that species develop gradually. Almighty Allah created all living things.

A 54-to-37-million-year-old fossil sunfish

A 295-million-year-old fossil sea urchin

A 125-million-year-old fossil cicada

A 50-million-year-old fossil sequoia leaf

S:109

This creature called a "trilobite" lived in the Cambrian era.

S:110

Figment of the Imagination

S:111

Evolutionists claim that the coelacanth is a fish that started to change into a reptile. Later, a living coelacanth was discovered and the evolutionists' ruse was uncovered. the coelacanth is a real fish.

S:115

The fossil of a bird called Archaeopteryx, that evolutionists tried to portray as an intermediate species, shows that evolution is a theory founded on deceit. This fossil is that of a real bird and shows that birds have not changed for millions of years.

S:116

Allah created human beings with different languages and with different races and colors. This variety is a wonderful blessing.

S:119

FALSE

# Back Cover

Children! What do you know about termites, those hard-working creatures resembling ants? Do you know that butterflies with their beautiful wings start out as tiny caterpillars and finally emerge from cocoons?

Do you know how woodpeckers hide tiny acorns in holes in oak trees, how it is that glow-worms are not burned by the light they give off, how frogs camouflage themselves to hide from their enemies, or how it is that seals do not freeze in the icy oceans..?

The stories you read in this book will give you lots of facts about those and many other fascinating subjects. As you read these stories you will think in detail about the animals in them and see just how flawlessly Allah has created them all.

# About the Author

Adnan Oktar, who writes under the pen-name Harun Yahya, was born in Ankara in 1956. Since the 1980s, the author has published many books on faith-related, scientific and political issues. He is well-known as the author of important works disclosing the imposture of evolutionists, their invalid claims, and the dark liaisons between Darwinism and such bloody ideologies as fascism and communism.

All of the author's works share one single goal: to convey the Qur'an's message, encourage readers to consider basic faith-related issues such as Allah's existence and unity and the hereafter; and to expose irreligious systems' feeble foundations and perverted ideologies. His more than 300 works, translated into 63 different languages, enjoy a wide readership across the world.

By the will of Allah, the books of Harun Yahya will be a means through which people in the twenty-first century will attain the peace, justice, and happiness promised in the Qur'an.

