 
## **Contents**

Title Page

SW Copyright Page

Author Note

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

Chapter Eight

Chapter Nine

Chapter Ten

Chapter Eleven

Chapter Twelve

Chapter Thirteen

Chapter Fourteen

Chapter Fifteen

Chapter Sixteen

Chapter Seventeen

Chapter Eighteen

Chapter Nineteen

Chapter Twenty

Chapter Twenty One

Chapter Twenty Two

Chapter Twenty Three

Chapter Twenty Four

Chapter Twenty Five

Chapter Twenty Six

Chapter Twenty Seven

Chapter Twenty Eight

Chapter Twenty Nine

Chapter Thirty

Chapter Thirty One

Chapter Thirty Two

Chapter Thirty Three

Chapter Thirty Four

Chapter Thirty Five

Chapter Thirty Six

Chapter Thirty Seven

Chapter Thirty Eight

Chapter Thirty Nine

Chapter Forty

Chapter Forty One

Chapter Forty Two

Chapter Forty Three

Chapter Forty Four

Chapter Forty Five

Chapter Forty Six

Chapter Forty Seven

Chapter Forty Eight

Chapter Forty Nine

Chapter Fifty

Chapter Fifty One

Chapter Fifty Two Part One

Chapter Fifty Two Part Two

Chapter Fifty Two Part Three

Chapter Fifty Two Part Four

Chapter Fifty Two Part Five

Chapter Fifty Two Part Six

Chapter Fifty Three

The Purple Otter gets the Last Word - SW
Storyteller's

Bed and Breakfast -

Series Pilot

STBB Series: Book Zero

Xavier P. Otter III

08/21/2014

Published by: Artisan Publishing Guild, LLC

APGuild@outlook.com

Edited by: Adele Symonds

Cover by: Trevor Connell
Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast - Series Pilot

Xavier P. Otter III

Copyright 2014 by Artisan Publishing Guild, LLC

Smashwords Edition
Author's Note –

Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast is a fictionalized 'Reality' Program. It will be presented in the traditional TV sitcom format, this being our Pilot Episode and every month we will release another. We are committing to Six Episodes in Season One, and just like TV, if there is a demand we will have a Season Two. At the end of a season we will put out a complete season compilation, think of it as a DVD box set for stories. (This is when the paperbacks will come out.)

Just like a 'Reality' Program each character visiting the Bed and Breakfast is trying to win. At the Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast (STBB) it's their unique stories that will get them the victory. We will be using this fictional contest to test the waters for spin off series and potential novels. Currently we are planning three spin-offs for Season One: The Dirge (Steampunk Dwarven Dragon Hunters) and The Ludicrous Life of Little Loki (What historical events did the trickster actually cause). Considering The Teen Ghost Guild (Teenagers helping solve ghostly situations). We will introduce each in a short story in their STBB Episode, during the same time frame we will launch the Pilot Episode as well as Episode One. That doesn't mean the other episodes from this season can't be made into a spin-off, the ultimate goal here is to find story-lines that you wish to read and tell your friends about.

I hope that you enjoy this format as we here at The Purple Otter Syndicate really enjoy experimenting with new things...

Xavier P. Otter III
Chapter One - Introduction to the Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast

Joshua Raintree stood at the dock looking back at his bed and breakfast; it was doing its best to suppress the swamp that was attempting to reclaim the land it had ruled without opposition. He was trying to determine what he should tackle first. Spring clean-up was always a big deal, mainly because he was so damn picky. This year he would be getting help, his oldest and best friends would be joining him, Kharon had taken the boat to pick them up a couple hours ago.

"Joshua." Molly called from the open screen door.

"Yes Molly?" he asked.

"You should start with your goats!" Cookie yelled through the window in the kitchen.

"Yes Molly?" he asked again ignoring Cookie's comment.

"Actually Cookie is right you haven't cleaned the cage since the last rain." Molly said and walked back inside.

"Of course, Cookie is always right. But the rain only stopped 15 minutes ago." He muttered to himself. "I was innocently thinking to myself and both of them jump in with answers." He said kicking a stone on the walk.

"It's not polite to mutter and it's bad for the digestion to kick rocks into the goats cage." Cookie said from a window on the second floor.

When Joshua got to the goat's hutch they were all on the roof. "Really? It just stopped raining!"

"Naaa." The smallest goat said.

"Of course your roof leaks, you climb on it with those hooves." Joshua replied.

"Na Naaaaaa?" the same goat asked.

"No, I won't get you sneakers. There are perfectly nice boulders in your pen for you to stand on."

"It hurts their hooves." Cookies said from inside the goats' hutch.

"Naa NNNa." The largest of the goats said.

"Of course she is. Cookie's always right." Joshua said.

"And don't forget it, Sweet Tea on the shelf in here."

"Thanks." He said opening the beautifully crafted door and stepping into the contained area. The goats all ignored him now. He cleaned the small piles, emptied the water and rinsed away the grunge from the watering container, then he re-filled it. "I do appreciate you not eating this watering can like you did the last one."

"NNNnnAna!" all the goats said looking at the smallest goat, who looked down ashamed. Joshua started to head into the hutch looking at the cowed goat, chuckling to himself. As he started to cross the little bridge into the habitat, all the goats started going nuts. "N N AAA!!!"

Chapter Two – Did You Just Fall for That?

From the corner of his eye he saw a flash of silver, flt-flt-flt-flt and a bloink sound as the silver coin landed in the water beside the bridge. "You're welcome!" Cookie's voice yelled from the kitchen window at the front of the house.

"Heck of a shot." Joshua said opening the hutch.

"Na." The smallest goat chided Joshua.

"Your right." Joshua said looking at the little head hanging over the ledge. "Thank you Cookie." He said raising his voice so she could hear him.

After the pen was clean enough for the goats to come off the roof Joshua returned to the house to clean up and get ready for the guests. "You know they won't be here for another hour, you can tidy that beach area." Molly said not allowing the screen door to open.

"I put the goats out there to clean it up."

"And if the Narwhal comes back?" Molly asked. Without a moment of hesitation he heads to the beach.

"Did he really just fall for that?" Cookie asked from the Lodge room.

"Quiet he may hear you. He has an irrational fear of narwhals." Molly laughed.

"At least our friends will come home to an amazing looking beach." Cookie joined in the laughing.

"Any sign of the narwhal?" Joshua asked his goats as he stooped to pick up the trash on the beach.

"NnA Naan." The smallest goat said.

"Really? I can't believe I fell for that." Joshua said looking back at the B&B.

"Naan." The largest goat said, with a sarcastic edge to it.

"Yeah, again!" Joshua said. "They're just so creepy looking with that spear thing." He stood up when his trash bag was full of debris, his khaki paints so dirty the crease had fallen out. "Back to the cage girls, thanks for your help."
Chapter Three – Arrival

Walking out the screen door Joshua placed his straw boater hat on and he followed Molly down the hill to greet their guests. The boat, which was drifting back up to the dock, had a crude illustration of a black short sleeved shirt with the word 'Tea-Shirt' in white on it. "Kharon, welcome back, fair seas?" Joshua asked.

"Yes but you wouldn't know from..." the boatman said giving an indication to Snow and KJ's green faces. "Can you toss this out for me?" Kharon said throwing an empty water bottle to Joshua.

"Judas!" Molly said waving vigorously from the beach.

"Miss Molly," he said helping his daughter off the boat. "Aubrey, go to Molly, I will be right up."

"Judas can you help Peter off as well?" Jealousy said with her hands full of bags, "AJ... AJ!" J had to touch his shoulder to get him to take his headphones off. "AJ, can you grab your bag. Actually can you handle all three?" J asked her middle child.

"Mom... I'm not a baby." AJ said showing his embarrassment at the question. He grabbed the bag from next to his older sister and his little brother and then left the boat.

"KJ sweetheart, let's get you on dry-ground. She bent over helping the very wet-noodle to her feet.

"I'm fine mom." KJ whispered.

"Just because you're an adult now doesn't mean I can't help you." She said in her daughter's ear. "Peter, you need to stop poking your dad." She said, turning to her youngest and trying to contain her mounting amusement, Judas was not as gracious.

"Come on Peter; leave your pukey pop alone." He laughed. "Snow you need a hand?"

"No I got th..." Snow couldn't finish, he leaned over the side of the boat and threw up into the water again.

"How much of that pizza did you eat this morning? I told you the anchovies were a bad..." Judas was cut off by a loud retching sound. Picking up Peter in one arm and the remaining bags in the other he rushed from the sound.

"We got two land lubbers Molly." Joshua said. "Actually better make that three," he said looking at Judas' face as he got off the boat.

"Two sea-sicker drinks and one sympathy puker special on the greeting table," Cookie said from her kitchen window.

"Snow make your way off when you can." Joshua said.

"I'll get him." Kharon said walking to the back of the boat. "Let's get you up to the house before the next spell hits you. Cookie's concoctions really work." He put his arm around the younger man's waist and helped him off the boat.

Chapter Four – Divide and Conquer

"Cookie, what's in this? I was feeling like I was dragged Through the Mill a couple minutes ago. Now I feel great. Cool!" Snow said.

"I'm not at liberty to give away the recipes, they aren't mine." Cookie said from the kitchen.

"Ok Cookie, are you Into the Mill again, hiding in the background? Not cool." Judas said.

"It's interesting that you two fell right Back to the Mill." Joshua said.

"That's enough of that cuteness you three." Molly chided. "Now that you're feeling better, I have a list of chores. We have guests coming in a week and I don't think a fourth failed attempt at happy customers will be good for the house. She seems to be willing to let the swamp win this spring!"

"Ok, sorry!" Snow said. He reached over and picked up the list Molly had put on the table. "Joshua and AJ you have the Deck and campfire room. Judas and Molly you have the Smoking room. Snow, oh I mean me and J have the Lodge room. KJ, Peter, and Aubrey have the Fairytale room."

"Awesome!" Aubrey said putting her little thumb up.

"Joshua you take master AJ, I will show the others where they need to go. Ok dears now let's show you where each of these rooms are at." Molly said leaving the greeting room.

Chapter Five – Jealousy and Snow vs. the Lodge pt. 1

The first room she came to was the lodge room, "Snow, you and Jealousy have this room. Cleaning supplies are in the closet just there," Molly said indicating the bookshelf.

"This fireplace is bigger than the one at the cabin." Judas said raising his hands above his six foot five inch frame and finding he still had room to spare inside.

"That's because you got lazy." J poked. "Molly did you say the cleaning..." She cut herself off as she turned back to a room that was devoid of everyone except her husband. "Where did they go?"

"How should I know I was busy looking at you." Snow said raising an eyebrow.

"Snow we have work to do!" She said as he started walking over. "Where did she say the cleaning tools were?"

"The closet." He replied

"And do you see a closet?" J was turning in a circle, the room didn't have a closet.

"Behind the bookshelf." A disconnected voice said.

"Thanks." Snow said as he slid the bookshelf out of the way.

Chapter Six – Judas and Molly vs. the Smoking Room pt. 1

"Ok Judas this is the Smoking Room, cleaning supplies are under the right bench, I'll be back once everybody is settled." Molly said as she took KJ, Peter and Aubrey further down the hall. He walked through the door completely enthralled with the old world feel of the room. Stepping behind the bar he grabbed a dishtowel that was hanging there. He wiped the bar down picking up each and every article on the shelves, cleaning under them. The easy part being over he walked over to the right bench and slid the tables from out in front of it so he had room to open it.

"They took my treasure again!" The man said as he popped out of the open bench seat. "Where are you hiding them?" he asked brandishing a sword at Judas. "Those that are called Bootloggers or something."

Chapter Seven – KJ, Peter, and Aubrey vs. the Fairytale Room pt. 1

"Ok dears, this is the Fairytale room."

"It looks like a big bedroom, Miss Molly." KJ said

"Well that's one way to look at it... I would probably start my cleaning there." Molly answered pointing to the bed. "Now I better get back to help your dad, he never has been able to go long without needing a doctor and we don't have one here per se."

"Per se?" Aubrey inquired.

"There is a Shaman in the swamp but that's quite an odd trip." Molly answered.

"I see." Aubrey said.

Chapter Eight – Joshua and AJ vs. the Deck and Campfire Rooms pt. 1

"So AJ have you visited your grandfather much in the Whitehouse?" Joshua asked.

"I have but all the TV crews are really annoying." The boy replied.

"I know what you mean, that's one of the biggest reasons I'm out here now." Joshua said.

"So you don't miss being..." AJ started.

"Don't use that term when referring to me... The house started throwing confetti every time I walked into a room and playing Battle Hymn of the Republic each time I left one. It took two weeks for it to get on to something else."

"What?" AJ asked and he stopped walking.

"AJ this is a magical place."

"I don't believe in magic sir." AJ said still not walking.

"I will make you a bet, if you can honestly say that when you leave I will give you an antique snow globe that belonged to one of the former owners."

"Deal, I love snow globes."

"You want to take a quick detour to see the winter-wonderland room?" Joshua asked.

"Why not." AJ said. Joshua nodded his head and turned around taking a hallway they had just walked passed.
Chapter Nine – J and Snow vs. the Lodge Room pt. 2

"Did you see a ladder in there Snow?" J asked.

"There's one in there yes, where do you want it set up?" he asked a moment later carrying the folding ladder out of the closet.

"By the fireplace, there are a lot of cobwebs up there on the moose."

"I should go see if Cookie has some light bulbs." He said after he set the ladder up so J could reach the moose head in question. He gave her a kiss before walking out of the room.

"Well Mr. Moosehead, I rather love your outfit but these cobwebs must go." J said as she knocked the web and a large deal of dust off the huge rack of horn.

"Ahhhh-choo!" The large nose in front of J let out a sneeze that may have blown over a passing semi-truck. J being nowhere near the size of a semi-truck began to fall backwards from the ladder.

Chapter Ten – Molly and Judas vs. the Smoking Room pt. 2

"I don't know who you're talking about." Judas said as he knocked the sword to the side. "Who are you?"

"I'm Captain Dub Step, the first pirate told of in this place. Who are you, that has the wherewithal to not fear a sword to your throat."

"My name is Judas, I believe I have lived through being shot, stabbed, tortured and on more than one occasion blown up, so a sword to the throat is really just a different day, same noise."

"Dubstep, what are you doing?" Molly asked as she walked in the room.

"Ah the Governess shows herself! Where have you and those Bootloggers taken my gold?" Captain Dubstep asked aiming his sword at her now. Judas takes the opportunity to grab the pirate around the waist, tossing him back into the open seat. After a tremendous splash of water he kicks the lid shut and sits down on it.

"Bootlogger?" Judas inquired.

"Bootlegger, you know guys that smuggle..." Molly started.

"Molly sit down I think we need to talk." Judas interrupts pulling the tables back into place.

Walking behind the bar, "Would you like a cranberry juice?" Molly asks.

"Better make that two."

Chapter Eleven – KJ, Peter, and Aubrey vs. the Fairytale Room pt. 2

"Miss Molly said that we should start on the bed." KJ said as looked up at the four-poster with a top mattress that would require a small ladder for her to get on top of. "Peter, Aubrey come here." The kids had been looking at something in the far side of the room. Walking to join her they kept looking back into the corner. "Come on, ok Peter you first. Pizza Man." KJ put an arm on his chest and the other on his knee, "Jump!" she said and flung him into the air spinning like a pizza crust up and onto the bed. "Aubrey your turn."

"Tell Peter to move first." Aubrey said getting herself ready.

"Peter..."

"I heard her, I'm clear." Peter said sounding a long way away.

"Pizza Man... Jump." KJ repeated the toss and Aubrey was on the bed as well. "You guys ok up there? I need to go find a ladder." There was no answer although she could hear laughing. She backed away attempting to get a view to the top of the bed, as she did the laughing got louder. "Peter, this isn't funny are you guys ok up there?"

"Yes, you worry wart!" Peter said looking over the side of the bed.

"This thing is enormous almost..." Aubrey trailed off.

"KJ, behind you!" Peter sat up, all amusement off his face. His warning came too late KJ finished taking the last step backwards and woosh, she was gone. "KJ!" He jumped from the bed; he hesitated rubbing his ringing shins.

"Peter, catch me." Like a trained set of performers she leapt down knowing he would be up to the task, he was. They walked over to the place where moments earlier KJ had been standing, now there was a normal floor.

"We need to find my dad." Peter said.

Chapter Twelve – Joshua and AJ vs the Deck and Campfire Rooms pt 2

"This is the winter-wonderland room, before we go in; remind me what our bet was." Joshua said.

"That I could honestly say I don't believe in magic when we leave next week." AJ replied with his arms crossed in front of him.

"That's right." Joshua said with a smile, "Go ahead open the door."

AJ confidently walked up and grabbed the door handle, quickly pulling it back. "Very funny Mr. Joshua, you got me." He reached up a second time, turning the door knob and pulling the door open. As if walking outside on the first snow day of the year the scene was full of kids sledding, making snowmen, and having snowball fights. A stray snowball landed at AJ's feet. "It would have been more convincing if you'd hit me with it." He said looking back at his host.

"AJ, see that sled over there?"

"The one all alone?" AJ asked.

"Yes. That is the Loneliest Sled, he is the keepsake from the only winner from this room."

"What is special about him?"

"While his is not my story to tell, if you were to ask, he may spell out a story for you." Joshua said.

"And that's what? A magnetically driven track?" AJ asked.

"Sled, please take Master AJ on a ride. Let him tell the story of why he is so irrationally rational." Joshua said. The Loneliest Sled travelled up to the boy, when AJ put his foot on the sled, he zipped away. Up to the side of the fresh snow on the steepest part of the hill, the Loneliest Sled began his trek. First up, then down, across and loops here and there.

"That's really cool. I can't wait to see how you do this; the animatronics of this place are unreal." AJ said.

"I'm sorry? Animatronics?" Joshua said still watching the sled make its path across the hill.

"Yeah that Yeti coming this way is amazing." AJ said.

Chapter Thirteen – J and Snow vs. the Lodge Room pt. 3

"Oh sorry..." The moose said as he grabbed J by the hair.

As her falling stopped J let loose a mighty "Ouch!" Descent stopped she grabbed the ladder and leaned herself toward the moose head.

Opening its mouth and releasing her hair the moose wrinkled its nose this way and that, "Oh dear, did you have teal in your hair?" The moose asked.

"I did yes, it was a long time ago and Snow really..." J started.

"Yes yes, I'm certain it looked lovely but the fact is I'm allergic to teal."

"Oh dear, what do I need to do?"

"Go find Cookie, tell her Fred is having an allergic reaction to the color..." The moose said.

"This has happened before?" J asked.

"A bit judgey aren't we?" The moose asked.

"Sorry, I didn't mean to judge I was just caught off..."

"Caught off? By what?"

"Well, a talking moose head named Fred with a color allergy to start with. Do you want me to wipe your nose free of the dust before I leave?" J asked.

"I believe I managed that with the sneeze but if you could straighten my fez I would appreciate it, appearance is important you know." Fred the moose head said. Jealousy reached up setting the fez back at a proper angle, to do this she had to rest her stomach against Fred's nose.

"That tickles." J said as Fred twitched his nose back and forth.

"I couldn't resist."

"Well it's not polite, I'm a married woman!" J said.

"And I'm a stuffed moose; I wasn't expecting a future... Shan't happen again, do please run along now and find Cookie, I think my eyes are turning glassy!" Fred said.

Chapter Fourteen – Molly and Judas vs. the Smoking Room pt. 3

Molly handed Judas a glass of cranberry juice and then sat a container of licorice on the table. "The truth of the matter is this place is magic. Each room in the Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast has its own theme."

"Like this is apparently a pirate, smuggler, bootlegger room?" Judas asked.

"Well it's called the smoking room and that has leant itself to little other than stories as you described." Molly said.

"Is there any danger?" Judas pauses and looks at the table, "Asks the man that just had a sword put to his throat." He mumbles to himself and looks back at her. "How about this, has anyone died here?"

"Not since we've owned it but this place has a history yes. About thirty years ago a guest showed up that put the owners and guests into a battle for their lives. They had to pit their imaginations against his. The problem dear, it's not my story to tell. There are rules to magic. And we need to abide by the rules set in place for this place."

"Do 'things' like Captain Dubstep popping out of a bench happen often?" Judas asked.

"Mainly in the Spring, the magic seems to hibernate in the Winter when the guests are gone. When House feels the new growth she has little control and magic starts running roughshod over reality." Molly said.

"I have been involved in things that many people couldn't have accepted, all my experiences with Ursula are a great example. I managed to push through that and I can do that with this information, magic is real, sure why not. I think we need to go check on the kids." Judas said.

Chapter Fifteen – Peter, and Aubrey vs. the Fairytale Room pt. 3

The kids ran out the door and down the hall just as they had come in, this time everything was different. The room that Molly had left Judas in was not the same; the door that mere minutes earlier said 'Smoking Room' now said 'Mystery Room'. They kept running, passing through room after room, recognizing nothing.

"Wait Peter," Aubrey said as they stepped through yet another door they hadn't been through before. "This is getting us more and more lost."

"How can we get lost? It's a house, eventually we will find a place we remember and then we will find everyone." Peter said, his eight year old mind trying to apply logic.

"Peter does this feel like a normal house to you?" Aubrey asked.

"Come on Bree, I know this is scary but I'm older trust me."

"You are one month older than..."

"Still, I'm older." Peter cut her off.

"Yeah and I'm taller, so what! Just look..." Aubrey walked back to the door they just walked through and opened it. "See it's not even the room we just walked through, this isn't a normal house." She walked into the room and Peter lunged and grabbed the door as it closed.

"If they change when they close we need to make sure the door stays open until we're both in the room."

"Good point," Aubrey said. "What's the name of this room?"

Peter looked before walking into it. "It says 'Board Room' on the door."

"The fancy long table and chairs, I would be bored too." Audrey said.

"No, Board not bored." Peter said.

"You're such a stupid boy; you're saying the same thing... There is no exit except where we came in." Aubrey was spinning around looking for another room.

"It's the same." Peter said holding the door open. "What about that door?"

"It says 'Janitorial Closet' why would there be a new room in a closet?"

"Look who's being overly logical now. Maybe the sign is wrong." Peter said and he confidently walked past the spinning girl. "See, there's another door in here come on."

Chapter Sixteen – KJ vs. ? pt. 1

When the sliding eventually stopped she lay on her back in a wet meadow, looking up into a rainbow that was fading into the sunny afternoon sky; the clouds that had brought the rain and by effect caused the rainbow to form were dissipating. The laughter that she heard before she fell was surrounding her now. KJ sat up gingerly wondering if she had been hurt and she just didn't know it yet.

"Your fine, get up." The girl's voice wasn't familiar but she rolled over to her side and stood up. "She's a bit of a biggun."

"And she isn't a child." The second voice was right in front of her yet KJ saw no one.

"Hello?" KJ's voice was timid.

"Well she isn't an adult either because she can hear us." The first girl spoke again.

"If you can hear me look down!" the second voice ordered. KJ did and there were two winged creatures, well they had to be pixies. "She can hear us!"

"I can see you too, are you pixies?" KJ asked.

"We are!" the first pixie said, and she flew up to get a better look at KJ. "My name is Tix and she's Kenzie." The pixie held out her hand to shake.

"Pleased to meet you I'm KJ." Unsure how to respond she held her hand out as well. When her hand got close, Tix's hand grew to the exact size as KJ's and they shook normally.

"You are the first human I have actually met. All the others can't find us." Her grip was surprisingly strong.

"And you're the first Pixies I have met as well."

"Having been proved wrong," Kenzie said having flown up to KJ's eye level. "Let's show you the Pixie world."

Chapter Seventeen – Joshua and AJ vs the Deck and Campfire Rooms pt 3

Closing the Winter-Wonderland room's door and leaning against it for a moment, Joshua said. "That was closer than I would have liked. And I didn't even get to see Sled's complete message."

"That was seriously awesome! When are you going to tell me the truth, come on Mr. Joshua I'm twelve I like to know the truth behind things." AJ said. The odd couple walked together down the hallway back the way they were headed prior to Joshua deciding to show AJ the Winter-Wonderland room.

"You're definitely an interesting child..." Joshua started.

"That's the point I was trying to make, I'm not a child. I even listen to the same music that KJ does."

"To me even your father is a child." Joshua said. Arriving at their original destination Joshua pushes against the door that would lead to the deck and the campfire rooms. For some reason the door would not open. "This has never happened before."

"What?" AJ asked.

"The room won't let me in. I do however have an idea. Walk around the corner out of sight for a moment." Joshua said. A moment later the door opened freely. "Ok come back." As AJ came around the corner again, the door slammed shut.

"Servos?"

"No just an upset room. Music, you love music right?" Joshua asked.

"Um yea." AJ said.

"Ok to the music room."
Chapter Eighteen – J and Snow vs. the Lodge Room pt. 4

Rushing out the room looking for Snow, Jealousy made it all the way to the kitchen with still no sign of her husband or Cookie. "Snow!" she said, waiting a moment. "Cookie!"

"Yes." Cookies voice came from the pantry at the back of the kitchen.

"Fred is having an allergic attack from colors." J said.

"Which color?" Cookie asked.

"Teal."

"Teal? We don't have any teal in that room." Cookie said flatly.

"It was from my hair." J said.

"Dear, your hair hasn't been teal in years." Snow said sneaking up behind her and scaring the Dickens out of her.

"I know..."

"This is serious; I don't have any teal left. You need to go out to the deck and see if Kharon has any. If not ask him for fishing poles and catch a bluegill. Tell it that you'll let it go for some teal. It may take more than one, you need enough to make your shirt teal."

"Got it!" Snow said. "J what happened to your shirt?" Pointing to her stomach area where a big black nose imprint showed against her white tee shirt.

"I leaned against Fred." J said.

"Did he tickle you?" Cookie asked laughing from inside her pantry.

"Yes."

"He's such a cad. Ok you two head to the dock, Kharon will be leaving soon."
Chapter Nineteen – Molly and Judas – The Hunt for the Kids

The walk through the halls to the fairytale room felt cold, Molly couldn't put her finger on what was different. Arriving at the room the door was ajar. Judas pulled Molly in as she had stopped and was looking curiously at the door. "Aubrey Broschell!" Judas was looking on the bed and all around the room, "Peter! KJ! Aubrey! Where are you kids?"

"Judas." Molly's voice was from the opposite side of the bed. "There is a story playing out in the Pixie Room. The door is closed to us until it's complete."

"No stupid Pixie is going to stop me from..." Judas started.

"First Pixies aren't stupid. Second it's not their doing, it's one of the rules. When a story begins it must complete." Molly said.

"Always?"

"Well, the only exception I know of is if you're added into the story."

"So should we just wait to see if we're added in?" Judas asked. "I'm not used to having no course of action!"
Chapter Twenty – Peter and Aubrey Enter

A Fairytale of Their Own pt. 1

"Oh for pity's sake, it's just another room." Aubrey said.

"Actually it's the biggest room we've seen yet." He ran out onto a roof and began to climb down a ladder. "Come on."

"Peter, I'm tired."

"I can't just leave KJ, please come on." Peter said.

"Ok, sorry." They climbed down the ladder.

"So outside to that town or through here to this other door?" Peter asked.

"Let's look at the room in here first." Aubrey answered. Walking down the hall she opened the door and looked at the room. "Peter it looks like that stupid bedroom we started in."

"Well then head down this way, let's go to the town then." They headed away from the building only turning once to see that the building was an old barn next to an even older house. When they reached the outskirts of the town a burning feather fell to the path in front of Peter. He bent and picked it up. "Ouch." Peter exclaimed.

"Peter, are you ok?" Aubrey said running up to him.
Chapter Twenty-One – KJ in the Pixie Room pt. 1

"It's interesting how far you can see from this height." Tix said from KJ's shoulder.

"I would never fly this high, its cold up here." Kenzie added.

"Actually I'm not very tall at all. You should see Judas he's a giant compared to me."

"Giants don't scare me!" Tix said. "One little slice from my blade on the back of their ankle and splat."

"You've fought Giants?" KJ asked.

"Giants, Dragons, Trolls, sure nothing scares me." Kenzie said. "I saw Tix chase away a lost Yeti once."

"That was nothing compared to you disarming that Pirate that thought he could take over Pixie world just because his sword was bigger than ours." With this they laughed so hard Tix fell off KJ's shoulder.

"Careful," she reached out to grab the falling Pixie who started flying before landing in KJ's outstretched hand. "Oh yeah you can fly."

"Good trait to have when you're as clumsy as Tix is." Kenzie poked at the other Pixie. Just then a huge roar came from across the forest where they walked. KJ turned her head to look, her long hair whipping out. Kenzie took the brunt of the hair in the chest and went flying off KJ's other shoulder.

"You're a twitchy one!" Tix said. "When you twitch it makes you look like a coward. And all that hair just adds to the twitching! What is the purpose of all that hair?"

"I got this!" Kenzie said drawing her sword and attacking the enemy at hand.
Chapter Twenty-Two – Joshua and AJ vs. the Music Room Pt. 1

As they arrived at the music room Joshua asked AJ. "So what's your favorite instrument?"

"I don't think any individual instrument stands out as the best, it's the way they come together to form the music that's important."

"So you don't like a good guitar or drum solo?" Joshua inquired.

"Sure they're cool, as long as they're in the right place."

"If I told you that in here you can learn any one instrument, you wouldn't choose one?"

"That is different, but I really don't know. Can I learn to run the sound board that mixes all the music just right?" AJ asked. The two walked into the room, which looked like a recording studio. They currently stood on the side of the glass where the microphones and instruments all stood.

"I don't know if that has ever been asked. There hasn't been anyone that wanted to tell their story in this room since I have been here."

"I can't believe that, music is inspired storytelling..." AJ started, in the blink of an eye, they were on the other side of the glass. A full band was assembled where they had just been. A fat man with a purple ponytail was between himself and Joshua.

"Okay we're going to take it from the top. Steven let the lead-in finish before you come in. Zack count it off." The ponytail man was saying into a microphone, he let go of a button he was pushing. "If these Charlatans sell a single record I will cut off my ponytail and wear it as a nose ring for a year."

"One, two, one, two, three, four..." The drummer, Zack said cracking his sticks together. The noise that came out of the group was a hodge podge of riffs and twangs that made AJ cover his ears. Having headphones already covering his ears this action actually made the sounds louder.

"Their awful!" AJ said.

"I believe that ponytail is safe." Joshua said.
Chapter Twenty-Three – J and Snow – Fishing for a Cure

"Kharon, do you have any teal?" Jealousy asked.

"No ran out two springs ago. Is Cookie making teal fly pie? It's a rather interesting..." Kharon started.

"No actually, Fred is having an allergic reaction." Jealousy said.

"Not again. I thought we had all the teal out of that room."

"She used to have a teal stripe in her hair." Snow said.

"Probably looked good. Fishing poles are under the dock." He pointed across at a bench seat. "Just pivot the chair. Since you're here can you cast me off?"

"Sure." Snow tossed the ropes from the tie off to Kharon after unwrapping them.

"Thanks and oh by the way, the Kelpie are really pissed about the puking in the water earlier." The boat started to pull away. "So be careful." With that he was gone.

"What's a Kelpie?" J asked.

"No idea," Snow tilted the bench forward revealing a set of stairs that led down into a storage closet below.

"I didn't expect that!" J said.

"A talking moose head tickled you on the tummy and an underwater storage room for fishing equipment surprises you? Dear I think your perspective is a bit cattywampus."

"Perhaps, but I'm not going down there first, you can hold that door all day pretending to be a gentleman I can see your hand shaking." J said with a wry grin.

"Fine, coward." Snow set off down the steps and a moment later, "J you have to see this. I promise no jokes."

"There better not be." She walked down the steps. After reaching the bottom and taking two paces toward Snow the door above them slammed shut.
Chapter Twenty-Four – Peter and Aubrey –

Enter a Fairytale of Their Own pt. 2

"I'm fine, this is a feather! Why would it be so hot?" Peter said.

"It's a phoenix feather." A man said appearing out of apparently nowhere. "That is a very valuable object. Can I have it?"

"Sir, if you wanted it you should have said something like it was bad luck. Telling me it's valuable doesn't make me want to give it to you." Peter said.

"That makes sense. What you should do is take it to Liza she runs the daycare in town. Her phoenix burnt up, and she will reward you if you let her know it has finally been reborn." When he saw the blank faces on the kids. "You can't miss it, on the other end of town, above the door it says 'Liza Lovekid's Daycare' on a beautiful sign. Tell her that Lastian sent you." The man said and with a tip of his round hat he walked off.

When he was well out of ear shot Peter turned to Aubrey, "Did you hear that? It's valuable."

"We're on a mission." Aubrey said.

"True but having a pocket full of money may help us to loosen some lips."

"Where did that come from?" she asked.

"Dad watches some old movies." Peter replied.

"Alright let's go see this Liza Lovekid. What's the worst that could happen?" Aubrey asked. The town was very empty as they walked down the street, "Weird this town is so nice, but there are no people."

"It is Sunday maybe there's an afternoon service." Peter said.

"Maybe. There it is. He was right that is a pretty sign." She said.

"If you say so." Peter said trying to act tough. The door opened with a tinkling bell.

"Hello." A pretty woman in a blue dress walked out of an office behind a large secretarial station. "I'm sorry children but we're closed on Sundays."

"Sorry ma'am would you happen to be Liza?" Peter asked.

"Why yes I am, such a well-mannered young sir you are." Liza said.

"Thank you, ma'am. We were directed here by a man..." Peter started.

"Lastian was his name." Aubrey whispered to Peter.

"The man said to tell you his name was Lastian."

"I know him he helps out here from time to time. And what was it that Lastian sent you to me for."

"Actually ma'am, I found this feather..." Peter started, at this she briskly walked forward.

"A feather? Was there anything odd about it?" Liza asked.

"It was burning, I thought I imagined it but when I picked it up it was..."

"Hot. Did it burn you?"

"A bit, but I'm fine. Lastian said you would be interested in having it." Peter said.

"I would most assuredly if it's from my phoenix. Let's go back here by the cage and compare it to the others I have. You see no two phoenixes have the same plumage and if this is my phoenix we will know." She opened the door that separated the front lobby from the area behind the large workstation. The three of them walked to the rear of the building where a large ornate cage sat, the door was open and several feathers were inside. "I can't get inside there in my church dress, would you be a good lad and grab one of the feathers for us to compare?" Liza said.

"Of course." Peter stepped into the cage and walked up to the pile of feathers in the middle of the cage. SLAM. The door closed behind him and when Peter turned, there at the door to the cage was a hideous witch.
Chapter Twenty-Five – J and Snow – Fishing for a Cure pt. 2

"You said no jokes." J said into a room that was gloomy green now that the lighting from overhead was gone.

"I didn't do that I promise." Snow said. As their eyes adjusted the figures that were swimming beyond the glass came into full effect. "Those must be the Kelpies that Kharon mentioned, they don't look happy."

"Yes Laddy, we're the Kelpies and no we're most definitely not happy!" The creature had come through what they had mistakenly thought was glass. It had the front end of a horse but instead of fur it had a hide much like a dolphin. The back end of the Kelpie was that of a scaled mermaid's tale. "You will be coming with me." His voice sounded thick with a Scottish brogue. He reached out and grabbed Snow under his arms using his hooved feet.

"Wait can I come with you?" J asked.

"We care neither if you stay nor come with." The large water-horse said starting to leave. Jealousy wasted no time thinking and she jumped on the back of the creature putting her hands around Snow's waste. Not having a chance to take a deep breath as the Kelpie left the protection of the underwater room, J's lungs were quickly burning and panic filled her mind. "Lass, stop panicking you can breathe as long as you're touching one of us."

"Thank you." Jealousy said and then realized she had spoken underwater and without bubbles or sounding strange. In the distance, they could see the outline of a castle getting closer.
Chapter Twenty-Six – Molly and Judas – Hunt for the Kids pt. 2

"Alright enough sitting let's go find Snow and J they need to know Peter and KJ are..." Judas started.

"Agreed, they need to know for no other reason than it may be them who are pulled into it and not us." Molly said. They walked to the Lodge finding it empty. "Fred have you seen Snow and Jealousy?"

"Molly is that you? I can't see you..." Fred said.

"Oh my, what happened?" Molly asked.

"Teal allergy."

"Not again." Molly said with a big exhale.

"It's not my fault..." Fred said, almost crying.

"I know love, I know. So I'm guessing they went to find Cookie?"

"Yes and please hurry my tongue is feeling dry."

"We will be back as quick as a bullet from a gun."

"Seriously, that's the analogy you're gonna use to a moose who was shot, stuffed and mounted? Really?" Fred chided.

"Sorry. We will be right back." Molly said and she took Judas by the wrist pulling him from the room. "Shut your mouth you look a darn sight foolish."

"That was interesting!" Judas said finally. "A sarcastic dead moose named Fred who is allergic to teal."

"It's a good thing it wasn't burgundy, his head shrunk to the size of a Labrador retriever! Although with those moose antlers staying the same size it was quite funny looking. Cookie!" Molly called out when they entered the kitchen.

"What?" Cookie's voice came from under the sink.

"Did you see Snow and J?" Judas asked.

"They went down to the dock to fish for blue gills." Cookie replied.

"Thanks." Molly said, turning around and heading to the dock.

"They aren't here?" Judas said confused.

"Maybe they went with..." there was a large splash in the water and Molly stepped back. "Oh no!" Molly ran over and pushed the bench over. She promptly ran down the stairs.

"What? What's wrong Molly?" Judas asked joining her in the underwater room.

"There, see there?" Molly pointed at the shrinking images of Snow and Jealousy riding the Kelpie to a tiny castle in the distance.

"What is that?"

"That is a Kelpie, or water horse. And they're part of the police force from Atlantis." Molly said shaking her head.

"So Snow and J are headed to Atlantis? Awesome!" Judas said.

"No, not in the least bit awesome. We need to go find Joshua."
Chapter Twenty-Seven – Peter and Aubrey –

Enter a Fairytale of Their Own pt. 3

"What are you doing?" Aubrey yelled.

"I'm locking up the solstice offering." The Liza witch said turning to gaze upon the little girl.

"Let him out!" Aubrey continued to yell and pull on the door to the cage.

"I'm not allowed to hurt little girls or you would be in there too. But my brother Lastian does not have to follow that rule so either quiet down or I will send for him."

"I don't understand?" Peter said.

"Of course you don't. Let me explain, my brother spends a lot of his time up trees and when a little boy happens by he drops a flaming crow's feather down. When they stoop to pick it up he jumps down and plays the helpful stranger. HaHaHaHA!"

"But that's just evil!" Aubrey said.

"Um, I'm a witch, he's a warlock. It kinda goes without saying doesn't it?" Liza asked.

"So what are you going to do with me?" Peter asked.

"That is the fun part of this for you. You get to eat all the food you could ever want."

"So you're fattening him up then?" Aubrey asked.

"That just sounds crass and old-fashioned. I prefer to say I'm helping him grow into his full potential." The witch said smiling in amusement at how funny she was. "Now if those sisters of mine have gotten..." she trailed off.

"And me, what are you going to do with me?" Aubrey asked.

"Well you'll simply go home." The witch said.

"No I wo..." Aubrey started. In that instant the witch made a motion with her hand and Aubrey found herself back on the big four-poster.
Chapter Twenty-Eight – KJ in the Pixie Room pt. 2

In the flash as quick as lightning Kenzie had flown past KJ. "My hair!" KJ exclaimed.

"You're free of that burden and now we're leaving to fight the troggle horned troll!" Tix said.

"We are?" KJ asked.

"Quickly now follow her!" Tix said as she chased after Kenzie into the forest. The sound of 'Trog Trog' echoed in the canopy of trees.

"Tix it's a good thing that hair was gone or it would be twitching up a storm right now!" KJ said.

"There you go then my gift to you!" Kenzie said. "No one wants to see a spitfire like you shaking and twitching."

"Makes sense!" KJ said just as they turned a corner and nearly ran into a thing twice her size.

"Trog Troggle!" the thing was covered in hair. Two horns stuck out the top of its head and directly under them were two tiny yellow, glowing eyes.

"Stay away from the..." Tix started.

"Horns yeah I get that." KJ cut across her.

"Actually I was going to say cliff but I guess you should watch out for the horns also." Tix said diving toward it's ankles. The Toggle Horned Troll zapped her out of the air. A flash of his other hand and Kenzie was caught as well.

"No!" KJ ran and made a perfect spearing tackle on the troll.

"Trogggggg." The creature fell back releasing the pixies as it fell. Both Tix and Kenzie's hands grew large and they grabbed KJ's shoulders pulling her back. A moment later would have been too late as the troll toppled over the cliff's ledge.

"You saved me!" KJ said.

"And you us!" Kenzie said.

"What a feisty one you are without all the hair slowing you down! But now you must go, someone needs you back in your world!" Tix said. She joined hands with KJ and Kenzie and they said, "Goodbye."
Chapter Twenty-Nine – Joshua and AJ in the Music Room pt. 2

"Cut, Cut Cut..." The man with the purple polytail shouted into his microphone.

"What happened that time Charlie?" Zack asked.

"I'm not certain did someone decide the name of this song is demolition derby love song?"

"What? No it's called, Pure Ice Love." Zack said missing the joke completely.

"I need to take five." Charlie said and he pulled on his ponytail as he left the sound booth.

"Ok guys take five." Joshua said into the mic after pressing the button as he'd watched the other man do.

"But we just got here." Zack said.

"Let's do this." AJ said into his microphone. "Let me hear the bass guitar line first." He listened, and made a few adjustments that felt right. "Ok now rhythm guitar," he did the same for keyboard and then lead guitar. "Ok let's hit those skins."

"Oh ya." Zack said.

"Now lastly vocals," AJ said. "Ok now again just like before Zack, bring it in on four." The drummer counted it off again only this time, music filled the room. Just then Charlie walked back in.

"That's it, that's the sound!" The band finished the song and he stood up and cut off his ponytail.
Chapter Thirty – J and Snow and the Halls of Atlantis pt. 1

"Do you have a name?" Snow asked the Kelpie.

"None that you can pronounce."

"So what do people call you?" Snow asked.

"None of your kind has ever addressed me as such. You are either testing me for your demented amusement or you're a simpleton." The Kelpie said.

"Actually you have him all wrong, neither of your descriptions describe him. He is asking to be polite. Saying hey you is not a very courteous way to address someone."

"I'm known as War-spout; if the translation bears."

"That is a mighty name." Snow said.

"Thank you. What kind of name is Snow? Are you cold to the needs of others?" War-spout asked.

"It is my surname. We typically have two names. The second name is the sir of family name. Since you are War-spout, in my world Spout would be your family name and your wife would even take it as hers upon marriage." Snow said.

"That is most strange, my wife would hate that, her name is Tranquility-Steam. With your standard naming she would be Tranquility-Spout. I may never have gotten married at all with spout as a family name. Here we are, welcome to Atlantis. Not many humans have been here and lived to tell about it, I hope that you're one that does Snow."
Chapter Thirty-One – Judas and Molly – Where is Everyone

They trailed through the corridors up to the door to the deck and campfire room, ignoring Fred's mumblings as they passed the Lodge room. "I know that was rude but he really is a bit of a hypochondriac and we have other issues to deal with." Molly said.

"I didn't say a thing." Judas said.

"I noticed, that's why I gave clarification Mr. Softy!" Molly said. They arrived at the door they wanted and walked inside. The coolness of the night inside this room felt refreshing. Judas did the standard double take inside the room.

"Joshua! AJ! Are you two in here?" Judas yelled, after he decided by this point that it was easier just to believe.

"Maybe they ventured down by the boat house."

"Didn't we just leave the boat launch?" Judas asked.

"No that was the dock and the underwater room, there is a boat house in here but it isn't really a room. It is a great place to hang out and listen to the frogs. Fireflies I need some light." Molly said. Their path was instantly lit up as a great band of fireflies came to their aid.

"Ok two points for that one." Judas said.

"There is no one here either. I'm getting a bit creeped out. I'm glad you're with me because I could never come down here alone." Molly said.

"Why not?"

"This is the 'Boathouse' from all the campfire stories." She said.

"And?" Judas prodded.

"People always tell how the evil that resides in places like..." A scream tore the night.

"Did you have to start?"

"Did you have to keep asking questions?" Molly said.

"Let's go see who got murdered."

"Judas, the kids are all still missing as well as Joshua and KJ."

"Your right, too soon." Judas said.

"Too soon would be a couple weeks AFTER we find them." Molly chastised him.
Chapter Thirty-Two – KJ, Peter, and Aubrey vs.

The Fairytale Room pt. 4

The room was dimly lit compared to Pixie Land. KJ heard a faint sound behind her. Spinning on the balls of her feet she was ready for anything.

"KJ!" Aubrey jumped into her arms. "I didn't know it was you... What happened to your hair?"

"I needed to lose a bit of it to not look so much like a coward."

"What?" Aubrey asked.

"Never mind, where's Peter?"

"He... He... He's locked in a bird cage and if we don't get him out a mean old witch is gonna eat him." Aubrey fell against KJ crying.

"No time for that. Can you get us to him?"

"Yes I know how we got there."

"Bree, tell me everything that happened on our way there." KJ said.
Chapter Thirty-Three – Joshua and AJ back to the

Deck and Campfire room

"Well AJ, that was impressive." Joshua said as they walked down the hallway of the Bed and Breakfast. "How did you do that?"

"I don't know, the music kinda spoke to me and I knew which knobs needed to be turned." AJ said still in shock.

"It was smart of you to make a copy of that so you have a keepsake." Joshua said.

"Well, if the music is real when I leave here I will know it actually happened."

"Did you think I hypnotized you?"

"Well sir, it would be an explanation." AJ said.

"I believe it would, but I think you don't believe that any longer." Joshua said as they walked up to and opened the door to the Deck and Campfire room. Joshua stepped aside allowing AJ to walk into the night sky.

The sight that greeted Joshua and AJ when the door to the room closed would have surprised even the most seasoned of magic gone awry. The two that argued on the deck were the embodiments of the Oracle of Delphi and the Aurora Borealis. They couldn't decide which needed to get put up first, the lights or the scarf, that were going to be used to decorate the façade that would border the deck.

"Ladies, please tell me what exactly we're looking for as an end result." AJ said stepping up to the bigger than life entities. "I see," he said nodding at the Oracle. "And?" turning to the Northern Lights. "I understand." He took a step back and looked at the deck railing. "I understand that with the parameters you have laid out, neither of you could get what you want out of the presentation. The lyrics of the lights would definitely be muffled by the scarf, and the rhythm of the scarf flowing would be restricted by the lighting. If you take a step back here and look from a different point, you can both be satisfied if you raised your melodies above the confinement of the deck by just a few feet. See here, here, and here."

"AJ, I can get that taken care of in no time." Joshua said, walking over to the side of the deck he affixed a couple extensions to the deck rails.

"That should allow you to work together, the continuous flowing of your beautiful lights will aid in the beauty of the scarf. And the motion of the scarf will give the lights depth. Separately ladies you're unforgettable, yet together you'll stop peoples' breath." AJ said.

"Yes ladies, he is far more than his age would grant." Joshua said.

"Thank you as well." AJ said. Together he and Joshua walked from the deck down to the campfire.

"Looks like you're here on an amazing day. Look." Joshua said pointing at the comet overhead, "Such a shame you couldn't be here next week."

"A schedule is a schedule. See you in seventy-five years." Halley said overhead.

"Did you hear that?" AJ asked his eyes were opened wide.

"I did, I'm glad you heard it as well, Halley doesn't come around but once in a lifetime."

"Is Halley the woman that just screamed?"
Chapter Thirty-Four – J and Snow and the Halls of Atlantis pt. 2

"It's beautiful." J was looking at the ornate architecture trying to take it all in.

"Do you have anything like this in the above world?" War-Spout asked.

"I know we have many beautiful buildings that I have only seen in books. But this building is made out of living creatures. There is nothing that I know of like this anywhere else." J started to reach out to touch a particularly colorful section of wall.

"J Sweetheart, I wouldn't do that." Snow said pulling her hand back down.

"Got caught up in it I guess." J said sheepishly.

"I'm taking you to meet with the King and his daughter." War-Spout said.

"Why exactly did you say we were summoned down here?" Snow asked.

"I wouldn't call it a summons, there were arrest papers sent out."

"Wait, what?" J asked.

"My position in the grand scheme is bounty hunter. I'm sent out if anyone in the outer world violates the pacts knowingly or unknowingly that we have in place. And..." War-Spout started.

"Violates?" Snow inquired.

"In your case obviously unknowingly, but yes violates. Dumping in designated magical areas is one such pact." War-Spout said.

"And if you can't retrieve the said perpetrator." J asked.

"That is actually the interesting part, the bounty hunters are all magical creatures; Yeti, Big Foot, Extra Terrestrials and us, sometimes we're referred to as..."

"The Lochness Monster." J finished for him.

"Exactly, so if the person won't come..."

"You ruin the person's life by making everyone think they're mad." Snow finished for him this time.

"You two are pretty sharp."

"Dumping?" Snow asked, getting back to the initial statement.

"Yes. You Snow, dumped in a designated magical area and to make it worse you dumped on the back of a Mermaid. The king has very specific issues with humans treating the Merfolk poorly." War-Spout said.

"When did I do that?" Snow asked.

"You did it at the dock when the Mermaids came to greet you." The voice this time came from in front and above of them and passed through Snow with an icy anger.
Chapter Thirty-Five – Molly and Judas – Where is Everyone pt. 2

"I know it came from around here." Judas said.

"I couldn't tell direction, the sound of a woman screaming in the night put me into a state of OMG." Molly clenched Judas' arm while hiding completely behind him.

"There look, I see light." Judas said.

"Fireflies, out." And the all the illumination surrounding them went out at once.

"The other light went out too..." Judas said.

"Could it be a reflection?" Molly asked.

"Off what?"

"You are the secret agent, I'm a concierge." Molly scolded.

"Fireflies, on half brightness please." Judas requested. They took a few hesitant steps in the direction of the scream ignoring the other light in the darkness.

"Fireflies out." Molly said when the light returned a moment later.

"That isn't a reflection. Stay behind me we can continue without light for a bit." In the quiet of the night they crept, listening for anything out of the ordinary. Crack. The sound of a branch breaking filled the air a mere twenty feet away.
Chapter Thirty-Six – KJ, Peter, and Aubrey vs. the Fairytale Room pt. 5

Through the doors and corridors, over the hayloft and down the ladder they raced. "This is the tree where we found the phoenix feather which was only a crow feather." Aubrey said. They continued to walk, the younger girl telling each and every detail she could think of. "The town was completely empty as we walked through it. Now it looks like a thriving metropolis."

"Well it could be because it's Sunday but maybe it's because the Witch is sated." KJ offered. "Maybe she only needed one sacrifice."

"That can't be it; she said something about, if her sisters had gotten theirs." Aubrey said.

"Bree, you're a genius! I have a plan."
Chapter Thirty-Seven – Joshua and AJ – A Scream in the Night

"Sorry Mr. Joshua." AJ whispered, stepping off the broken branch.

"Not your fault. Quiet now stay behind me and be ready to call on your two friends if we need them. Never know when having a supernatural entity on your side may be needed but you don't want to waste their time either." Joshua whispered.

"Yes sir."

"Fireflies forward full light." Joshua said and they responded with a dazzling and brilliant light. At the same moment a dazzling and brilliant light was heading toward them. "What the?" he tried to watch the progress of his charging fireflies but he found himself blinded... "Judas?" he said loudly.

"Joshua?" the answering call came, from both Judas and Molly.

"What are you doing in here?" Joshua asked.

"It's a long story..." Molly started.

"Did you scream?" AJ asked.

"No we were searching for that als..." Molly was cut off by a groan in the darkness. As if they were synchronized swimmers Judas and Joshua shifted themselves between the groan and their charges.

"Fireflies forward, full brightness." Joshua said. The resulting scream echoed into the night sky.
Chapter Thirty-Eight – J and Snow and the Halls of Atlantis pt. 3

The voice came from a Merman sitting on a thrown. His white hair and muscular upper body, covered in a vest of many colored scales, gave the air of magisterial power. To his left sat a Mermaid with auburn hair, her upper body also had a vest of many colored scales.

"You're Majesty, as requested I have brought you the perpetrator." War-Spout said bowing to the King and Princess.

"Once again War-Spout you deliver when others fail." The Princess said.

"Who is this companion of the Snow which you bring?" The King asked.

"I'm Jealousy, his wife. You're Majesty."

"You speak bravely for one offering to be killed, alongside your mate." The Princess said, sneering at J.

"Daughter, we're not finished with our discussions yet let us not talk of executions, until later." The King said.

"You're Majesty. I'm here to clear my husband's good name."

"Does this one not speak?" The Princess asked.

"My speaking has gotten me into a lot of trouble in the past. If it pleases, Sire. I'm unclear of ever dumping into a magical area." Snow said.

"You deny that you performed the act? There were five witnesses, you dumped processed flour, partially hydrogenated soybean oil, cellulose powder, salt, sodium phosphates, enough preservatives to petrify an entire school of minnows and worst of all dead anchovies." The Princess said.
Chapter Thirty-Nine – Joshua, AJ, Molly, and Judas –

A Scream in the Night pt. 2

"Trog?" the voice that followed said. Two little yellow eyes shone amongst the fireflies.

"Fireflies, low brightness please." Molly said. And the dazzling brightness diminished to a soft candle light.

"What are you doing?" Judas tried to pull Molly back.

"She might be hurt." Molly shrugged Judas off and ran to tend to the creature.

"Molly be careful, those horns look sharp." Judas said.

"Oh hush." Molly said and reached up bending the horn. "They just look scary, they're mostly to swat the pixies away."

"Trog." The Troggle Horned Troll said nodding her head.

"That was quite a scream, what happened?" AJ walked up to get a better look. The Troll answered with a series of 'Trogs and clicks' that AJ and Molly nodded their heads to in unison and gasped when the troll smacked her hands together. "Well that's dreadful." AJ said.

"Now come on, the pixies just pushed you over the ledge? I can see you have your lipstick half on... Did you grab one and start using their hair as lipstick again?" Molly asked.

"Trog." She said looking down.

"Yes, it's a lovely shade, I understand. But we talked about it.

"Trog?" The troll asked.

"No I don't know anything about a giant wingless feisty pixie. Now let's get you up and back to the right room." Molly and AJ helped the Troll up.
Chapter Forty – KJ, Peter, and Aubrey vs. the Fairytale Room pt. 6

"Liza!" Aubrey said as she rang the bell on the workstation in the entrance to the daycare.

"Hello, little dear. You made very good time. I didn't expect to see you until sometime tomorrow." The beautiful woman in the blue dress said looking down at Aubrey over the unit.

"I want my brother!"

"Dear I told you that isn't going to happen." Liza looked out the door seeing a distraught young lady running up to the door. "If you say a word, I will break my oath and throw you in the oven! Do you understand?"

"Yes ma'am." Aubrey stepped back as the little bell over the door tinkled.

"I'm so sorry to barge in..." The entrant was visibly shaken and out of breath.

"It's ok dear, how can Mama Lovekid, help you?" Liza said.

"My mother is dead..." The tears began to flow, "I need to get to our family cabin and tell my father..." The poor girl broke down on the counter crying.

"You poor, poor dear," Liza said walking around the counter to hug the crying girl. "What do you need from me?"

"I don't have room to take my five brothers! I don't know what to DOOOO!" the tears once again came out like a fountain.

"We can..."

"Ma'am," Aubrey interrupted. "I need to return home with my brother."

"This poor girl is in great distress. I'm sure that..." Liza started.

"I will be fine, she should get home to see her mother while she... she... cannnnn!" the girl was beside herself.

"Ok I will be right back with your brother." Liza went back through the gate separating the lobby from the day care and rushed to the large bird cage. "Listen boy, I'm letting you go. As long as you don't say one word until you're out of my daycare building you'll be safe! Do you understand?"

Peter nodded his head for fear this was a test.

"You must say yes this is a magical contract." Liza said.

"Yes." Peter said and not a syllable more.

"Good." Liza opened the gate and allowed Peter to get out of the cage. "Now get out." When Peter ran past her she turned to return to the front, she had arrangements to make for five boys, her sisters would be so happy!

"Witch!" The word surprised her but not as much as the kick to the solar plexus. Liza fell back into the cage. In a blink the door was shut, locked and the key removed.

"What? How?" The beautiful woman had transformed into the witch again. She raised her hand and then raised both. Nothing happened. "Lastian you and your stupid magic proof cage. AHHHHHH!" The witch yelled as KJ, Peter, and Aubrey walked out.
Chapter Forty-One – J and Snow – And the Halls of Atlantis pt. 3

"I threw up! I didn't dump anything..." Snow said and then added, "Sire!"

"So you ate fish?" The Princess asked.

"That is why I threw up, I had no idea there were poor defenseless fish on that pizza! My constitution couldn't handle it!" Snow said.

"I see." The King said. "So why did you... throw-up on my niece?"

"I don't have eyes to see as well as your kind that can see above and below water." Snow replied.

"I see." The King said. "If I were to let you go what benefit would it give me and mine?"

"I'm related to the President of the United States. I can give voice to your cause and promote a moratorium on ocean dumping. Not just dumping in magical areas." Snow said.

"Perhaps I was wrong about this one's ability to speak father. I think he and his mate would speak well on our behalf." The Princess said.

"As do I daughter. War-Spout, return them to their world. Do not forget your promise the Snow."

"I won't Sire!" Snow replied. And with that War-spout started out of the Throne room. "War-Spout please wait I almost forgot." The water horse halted and returned to the place in front of the King and Princess. "You're Majesty, I'm very sorry but if I may be so bold, do you have any teal?"

"For what reason do you ask?" the King asked sitting up straighter.

"Sire my friend is having an allergic reaction and..." J started in.

"Only magical creatures have allergies to colors, here." The Princess broke a single scale off her vest and handed it to J. "All you need to do is fill this with salt water and have him drink from it."

"Fair well travelers," the King said. And this time they did leave.
Chapter Forty-Two – KJ, Peter, and Aubrey vs. The Fairytale Room pt. 7

"How the heck did you do that?" Aubrey asked.

"It's a funny story, for another time." KJ said. "We still need to get back."

"What is the worst that could happen?" Aubrey asked.

"Bree, are you serious? Last time you said that, I ended up in a bird cage and KJ lost all her hair." Peter said.

"Hey I like her hair." Aubrey said.

"I really don't think that's the point here Bree." Peter scolded.

"Let it go Peter," KJ said. "We have a long way to go let's get on with it." The kids had reached the center of the newly empty town's streets before the fading screams of the witch to the South were joined by the angry howl of a broken brother to the North, the outcry of four vindictive sisters to the East and the caterwaul of a gathering murder of crows to the West.

"What's the worst that could happen she says..." Peter started.

"Not helping." KJ said.

"I wish my dad was here!" Aubrey said.

"I wish my sister Pixies were here." KJ said.

"I wish my dad was here too." Peter added.
Chapter Forty-Three – Joshua, AJ, Molly, and Judas –

To the Fairytale Room

"Ok so what exactly just happened?" Judas asked.

"It appears this Troggle-horned Troll was in a scrum. And somehow she ended up in a completely differently room within the B&B." AJ said.

"And you understand everything that she said?" Judas asked.

"Yes, didn't you?" AJ asked.

"Sounded like a bunch of trogs and clicks to me."

"Trog?" the troll asked.

"No he didn't mean you. Judas, you just told her she was bald." Molly said. "She has had a bad enough day without you being completely insensitive."

"Tell her I'm sorry." Judas said. With a look of complete confusion Judas lifts his hands looking at them as they transparent, "Joshua what's happenin...." His voice faded away before he could finish.

"Judas!" AJ said.

"Where the heck did he go?" Molly asked.

"I've never seen anything like this either." Joshua said.

"What do we do?" AJ said.

"We keep taking our Troll friend back to her home that's what we do." Joshua replied.

"Trog." The Troll said.

"No we're not pulling you into whatever is going on here." Molly said to the Troll.

"Molly, that's it! Judas could've gotten pulled into someone's story!" Joshua said, a moment later he vanished as well.

"Joshua!" Molly said in shock as she watched him disappear as well.
Chapter Forty-Four – J and Snow – Back to STBB

"Congratulations, that's actually the first time I have witnessed both the Princess and the King support the release of a perpetrator." War-Spout said.

"What would have happened if they disagreed?" Snow asked.

"You would have stayed in the cells until one of them decided to change their mind." War-Spout said.

"And?" J asked.

"It typically went the way of the Princess."

"Makes sense." Snow said.

"How?" J asked.

"The King obviously misses his wife and......."

"Snow!" J yelled.

"What happened?" War-Spout asked.

"He just vanished... Could the King have changed his mind?" J asked.

"The King's magic is not that strong this far from the palace. We are almost back to your home some very strong magic is involved here."

"Alright let's keep heading home. I have kids I need to check on." J said.
Chapter Forty-Five – Reinforcements to the Rescue

"Dad!" Aubrey said throwing her arms around Judas.

"Thank God!" Peter said, hugging his dad.

"Hey girls! KJ said high-fiving Tix.

"What just happened?" The Pixies, Snow and Judas all said.

"We don't have a lot of time!" KJ said. "That way is a Witch who kidnapped Peter. When Aubrey and I locked her in the cage and let Peter out she called in her army. So we called in you guys." The Crows gave a collective CAW that shook the ground.

"Oh it's so on!" Tix said and the band of Pixies set out to murder the Murder.

"KJ what happened to your hair?" Snow asked.

"You didn't just have a fashion moment did you Snow?" Judas asked. "What are we facing aside from the Crows?"

"Witches and a Warlock." Aubrey said.

"How did we get here?" Judas asked.

"We wished for you." Peter said looking up at his dad.

"I wish the King of the Merfolk was here." Snow said, "Safely in a pond of water." He added not knowing for sure that he wanted a fish flapping on the ground.

"I wish Zenzelmo was here!" Judas said. The ground in the center of town caved in and filled with water. In the center of the water was the King of the Merfolk, his vest reflecting all the colors of the rainbow. This was followed by a small tornado coming from the sky touching down next to Judas. When the wind and dust settled, a cartoon man stood looking around confused. When everyone looked at Judas in confusion he said, "He was the only magical person I could think of!"

"What just happened?" The King asked.

"Sire, we are being attacked by dark magic users!" Snow said.

"Who dares summon forth the great and powerful Zenzelmo?" The voice of a god came from the cartoon character that appeared to be made out of Arm-Go blocks.

"I summoned you Zenzelmo, I need your help protecting my family and friends!" Judas said.

"Then you shall have it!" The wizard said. He took a couple moments looking between his cartoon block body and the non-animated others. Apparently content he asked, "Who be our enemies?"

"Four witches and a warlock!" Aubrey said again. "Oh and a bunch of crows."
Chapter Forty-Six – J, Molly, Joshua and AJ – Back together

"Good luck in your search for Snow." War-Spout replied.

"Thank you." J said and she ran out of the underwater room. Pausing for a moment to take an empty bottle from the trash can on the dock she bent at the shore to fill it with salt water and ran up to the house. "Hello!"

"Don't let that door slam!" Cookie hollered from the kitchen.

"Have you seen Snow?" J asked.

"I haven't seen anyone for hours." Cookie replied. "Did you get the teal? Fred is doing terrible."

"I did one better, I have a reusable cure!" J said.

"That is great! Master moose is more trouble than he's worth. But we're stuck with him."

"Stuck with..."

"Not your story Cookie." Molly said having walked out of the door to the lodge room, followed by AJ, Joshua and the Troll.

"Um..." J said looking at the long horns.

"This is Troglish-dlar; it means beautiful eyes. She is a Troggle Horned Troll." AJ said.

"Pleased to meet you." J bowed her head slightly to which the troll repeated the gesture. "Have you seen Snow?"

"We lost Judas as well." Molly answered.

"I feel like a big adventure is happening without me." Joshua pouted.

"J what's this cure you were mentioning to Cookie?" Molly asked.

"The Princess of Atlantis gave it to me." J held out the scale which twinkled with an imaginary sunlight reflecting off it.

"Atlantis?" AJ asked.

"Not now, later. How does it work?" Molly took the scale from J.

"Take this as well; it's saltwater from the canal. Fill the scale and have Fred drink it." J recounted.

"Ok, Joshua can you take everyone to the fairytale room and Cookie and I will take care of Fred." Molly said.
Chapter Forty-Seven – The Battle for Control pt. 1

"I'm creating an anti-magic bubble, everyone get in so that we can assess the situation." Zenzelmo was waving his staff and a large orb appeared over them. It was sectioned by triangles that alternated color. "I'm not certain the type of magic they will be using. I created a randomization pattern that will focus a specific defense in each section; above it are four other layers with different protection. When I see what works I will know what I need to do."

"Will it block physical attacks?" Judas asked the little cartoon man.

"To a point yes." The wizard said.

"I can turn away any physical attack on us." The King said.

"Can you make weapons?" Snow asked.

"Of course." He waved his trident and three identical tridents appeared.

"And I can make these." The Wizard waved his staff and three swords appeared. They were however made out of cartoon Arm-Go blocks.

"Tridents it is." Snow said.

"Can we walk through this?" Judas bent to pick up a sword and attempted to break it. Then he touched the edge, "Ouch."

"What did you think would happen it's a sword?" Zenzelmo inquired.

"It doesn't look sharp." Judas stuck his cut finger in his mouth.

"Yes you can walk through the barrier." The wizard said.

"The Pixies are beating the tar out of those crows." KJ said as the first volley of magical lightning hit the orb.

"It will take a great deal more than th..." Zenzelmo was cut off as a giant boulder struck the orb shattering several of his sections. Had the King not pushed it away with a burst of icy wind they may have all been road pizza. "Nice one your Kingship!"

"Yes thank..." Judas' comment cut off as three boulders came from three different directions. Again the MerKing defended the group.

"You got the Warlock with one of their boulders!" KJ said.

"Four witches and a murder of crows to go!" Peter added.

"That isn't helping." Aubrey said.

"They're bringing more... I don't know what those are." KJ said.

"Add golems to that list Peter," Judas said.
Chapter Forty-Eight – Fairytale Room Gathering

"Why are you still out here?" Molly asked as she arrived at the door.

"We can't get into the fairytale room." Joshua said.

"Trog?" the troll asked.

"No dear, we're not throwing you in the Fairytale room that's just where the entrance to the Pixie world is."

"Trog."

"I guess we just wait here until the story plays out in there." Joshua said.

"How's Fred?" J asked.

"He will be fine, that scale turned into a beautiful shell which grew and grew. I didn't know how much water to give him so I poured the entire bottle in there. By the time it mixed its potion together it was about a gallon of teal goo." Molly said.

"He drank it all?" Joshua asked.

"Cookie is still there giving him the rest." Molly said with a smile that faded as a large boom followed by an emanating brightness came from under the door.
Chapter Forty-Nine – The Battle for Control pt. 2

"Zenzelmo can you protect us from the witches if we go out and fight?" Judas asked.

"Yes, of course." The wizard replied.

"And if they throw boulders?" Snow asked.

"I will fix those!" the MerKing said.

"KJ what are you doing?" Snow asked.

"I'm getting a sword."

"For what?" Judas joined in.

"I have your back boys!" KJ ran out of the shelter to engage the oncoming horde.

"I don't think she knows what that means!" Judas said. Together he and Snow got ahead of KJ. "Now stay on my six."

"Yes sir." KJ said. The group that charged them was made up three different colored monsters. Snow stopped the first few before they got in too close, when the trident touched them they turned to sand.

"Awesome!" Snow said.

"Don't get cocky!" Judas said bringing down a blue one with a slice from his Arm-go block sword. They were covered in a smoky residue for a moment which allowed the Golems just enough time to close the gap on the group. "Fall back!"

"No room this way!" KJ said.

"Touch your sword to the ground!" The wizard yelled. A moment later the resonating boom left the sword and the surrounding Golems crumbled into an assortment of smoke, sand, and lava. The MerKing protected them in time from the lava falling on them. The three warriors ran back to the bubble under a barrage of arrows.

"We need to go on the offensive!" Snow said.

"The Pixies have finished mopping up the crows they're on their way now!" Aubrey yelled.

"You up for shielding us again?" Judas asked.

"I will join you!" Zenzelmo said.

"As will I!" The MerKing.

"As the Pixies reach us we advance!" Judas said.
Chapter Fifty – Together at the Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast

The door swung out, the group that stood behind the door looked much the worse for wear. "Hi!" KJ said waving to her mother that had stuck her head in the room.

"Oh my goodness your hair!" J said.

"Seriously you too? She looks great!" Judas said.

"She does look great it's quite a sh..." J started.

"TROG!" The troll looked through the door and seeing KJ he ran down the hallway in the direction of the kitchen.

"Why is that Troll here?" KJ asked.

"I will explain later if she gets in the kitchen and ruins Cookie's dishes it will be a large problem!" Molly ran off with Joshua trailing behind.

"You would not have believed what your daughter did!" Snow said.

"Aside from scaring the heck out of a Troll?"

"Yeah she charged a..." Snow started.

"Not your story to tell!!!" Joshua yelled from the other side of the hallway.

"Fine! KJ step up here and tell your mom all about the way you had mine and Judas' backs." Snow said crossing his arms.
Chapter Fifty-One – How the Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast works

"Mr. Joshua," Fred said. "While I'm almost better, I think I need a story to get back to one hundred percent."

"Oh you do, do you?" Joshua said.

"Actually, I was really interested in understanding how this whole storyteller thing really works." AJ said.

"Why is that?" Joshua poked.

"Well the way the rooms are, they seem to have grown from people's imaginations." AJ said.

"What, through various animatronics and Computer simulation?" Joshua asked.

"No sir, from magic." AJ said.

"AJ?" J, Snow, and Joshua all said.

"What? A guy is allowed to say when he's wrong isn't he?" AJ looked down at the ground very pink in the ears. "I still can't put my finger on how the magic works with the story."

"When my guests come to the Stoyteller's Bed and Breakfast they must agree to five rules. The First rule; each person will tell a story, the story. The second rule, the story teller will specify where and when his story will start. Once it starts no one may enter or leave until the story has reached its end." Joshua said.

"Well we found that people can join the story by being wished into it." Judas said.

"That we did." Snow said.

"Third rule, the story must be original. Putting your twist on an old classic may be acceptable; it's really up to the yarn you spin. The fourth rule, when a story is told here it may not be penned by any other than the person who told said tale. The fifth, the guests cannot tell anyone what happened while you were here, except people that have been here." Joshua said. "With all the rules laid out, I do have a story that I have never told, if you would like me to tell it still I can."

"Yes!" Fred yelled over everyone else.

"Very well let's take a brief break and return here in ten minutes." Joshua said.

"Five." Fred said.
Chapter Fifty-Two – Joshua's Story

The Invisibles

Even in the Spring of Chicago he needed to fight with other invisibles to sleep close to the hot, rancid smelling, steam from the sewer lines. One never actually slept when their sleeping arrangement was under an elevated train. Its vibration hollowed the bones and caused the raining of rust particles to tickle the nose. Sunday morning, 'L' woke him from his slumber, the suburban visitors from the darkness of the West were arriving on a train with the rising sun reflecting off its silver front.

Keeping his eyes closed, Messenger listened to the clackita clackita of the train's wheels working on the tracks. He could imagine it drawing closer. This revelry was short lived, it was broken by the profanity of a driver yelling from behind his fogged windows, as a rear wheel found one of the million pot holes that littered the city's streets. The depth of this caused the car to bottom out. The sound was reminiscent of a submarine scraping on a coral reef from one of the movies they play in the park.

The barking of a dog close by followed by crashing garbage cans grabbed his attention, removing all remembrances of sleep. He saw the black shadow of a cat running from the now horizontal cans. The cats everywhere in the city scare him, both feral and privately owned. There is just something wrong with them. They will come up and scratch you while you're sleeping, he has witnessed it. The stray dogs running around knocking cans over don't scare him; it's the ones that are owned by the citizens of the city that he is afraid of. Dogs always want to play with him, but he has seen the damage playful dogs have done in the face of a bitten child. Bottom line, he's terrified of them, even going so far as fleeing to the potted plants that line the crowded streets of Chicago when a dog being walked wants to play with him. Sometimes their owners pull them quickly away, other times they are so consumed with their cellphones, either texting or talking, they ignore their beast's barking. The people never apologize to or even look at him; he is simply one of the invisible, one of the useless ones that sleep under the 'L'.

The wind shifts and the smell of waste, including his own, wafts across his nose. He thinks of those who use the seclusion of the dumpsters to move their bowels. Wiping with whatever papers or plant life they find and still others that let their liquids flow where they sleep. This morning it's strong, there hasn't been much rain for Chicago in the Springtime.

As a messenger he has seen every inch of this city. He knows where he can go to clean up without looking like a, well a, vagabond. He also knows where he can pick up food when the need hits.

The beach is very empty, heading over to the shower areas he takes a moment to clean up before heading over to the Shedd aquarium. Saturday night is a great time there, many visitors coming and going, more importantly they don't pick up the garbage until 10am on Sundays. Taking his time he finds some food still in wrappers. After he eats his fill he walks back down by the water, enjoying the solace of the small lapping waves.

Looking up from watching his own foot falls, he makes eye contact with the most beautiful creature he has ever seen. He quickens his pace suddenly feeling extremely bloated. As he closes the gap he is contemplating what he's going to do when he receives a call from work, Fancier Messenger Service. He reluctantly hurries away knowing that a Sunday call has to be important.

"I need you to stay and wait for a reply on this." Fancier said to Messenger after he handed him the special delivery bag. Recognizing the destination he departs thinking about the best route while simultaneously thinking about her eyes. Beeeeeeeeep.
Part 2

Only his fast reflexes save him from getting hit by the oncoming black taxi; shaking it off he starts on the delivery. Taking no time at all he arrives at one of the nicest apartment complexes in Chicago proper. Approaching the door, he knocks and it instantly opens. "Thank you," the Rich man says. "Help yourself," indicating a beautiful spread of fruit as well as an amazing group of freshly baked breads. He ate a couple berries and drank some tepid bottled water from a glass. The Rich man returned giving the special messenger bag back, "You sure you don't want a little more water?" The Rich man asks but he's had his fill. It's time to return to Fancier.

"You've done well." Fancier said to Messenger after an uneventful return trip and taking the bag. "You should hydrate." Fancier pulled a bottled water from the chiller he used, opening it he poured it out in a container that had three fresh blueberries in it. "You aren't excused until you drink some."

Messenger drinks several long pulls, thinking how amazingly cold the water is he spears each of the berries in turn. He starts to leave.

"I'll call you if anything comes up." Fancier said as his messenger left.

Hours later, arriving at his own little slice of independence under the 'L', he reflected on the surprising Sunday delivery and then his thoughts drifted to her eyes and he fell into a deep sleep. After what felt like only minutes the sound of terrible screams woke him. Opening his eyes and getting up he initially starts heading in the direction of the scream. He found himself bumping into one or two of those that were rushing away from the problem. The Shadow began to grow right in from of him. Had it just been the size concern he would've continued forward, it was the eye that opened in the top of the shadow, looking at its victim that prompted his change of heart. He remembered that he was a messenger not a hero, so he turned and joined the ranks of the retreating.

As he fled a train was arriving on the 'L' above. Its light cast across the scene, creating a shadow box on the building adjacent. The newly created theater changed its size as the train got closer; Messenger expected the shadow on the building to spout blood.

The mission is the only safe place for the invisibles tonight and that was where they all headed now. Upon arriving Messenger drank from their fountain, the water is cool yet dirty tasting. Although they were all packed together like sardines and regardless of the murderous adventure earlier, sleep came quickly for Messenger.

When the call came from Fancier he got up and left, waking the entire group. He cleaned up in the fountain and drank a bit of the cool dirty water.

"That took quite a while for you to get here!" Fancier said. "This is a new customer, take this to him I don't need to get a reply." Messenger took the bag and left.

The traffic was busy for a Monday morning requiring his complete attention. He weaved in and out making his way to the new destination. This is an area of town that rarely gets visits from messengers he imagined. Arriving at the destination he sees a series of things that make no sense, there are people sitting inside a van on the street and the trash is still sitting on the porch when today is garbage day.

He journeys to the back door to make the delivery this is typical for deliveries at a private house. He quickly rethinks this as two large German shepherds in the yard turned and looked at him. There is a side door and Messenger decides this is the correct course of action. Knocking for what seemed forever, someone eventually answers.

"Sorry, come in." The man in front of him is dirty, looking as if he slept next to Messenger under the 'L' last night. The house was in worse shape than the dirty man. "Would you like a drink of water?" Thirsty he accepts. The chlorine taste in the warm tap water is too much for an enjoyable drink. Looking into the glass and seeing a ring of milk on the bottom coming free, Messenger stops drinking. "I guess I'll see you again soon." The Dirty man says and Messenger leaves. 
Part 3

Back in the city he watches the crowds and cars. People make the best entertainment, especially in the warm weather, driving with their windows open. Various types of music fill the air along with interesting expletives from drivers. He takes a place on the monument in the middle of the city, a giant bean. The picture wall that spits at kids and people that don't know that it will happen, isn't spitting right now.

The lunch crowd was wandering around with their food, some take up residence on the benches by the bean. They don't see Messenger, but they do notice Tourette Teri, the lady who wanders among them, asking for money between her curses of the highest nature. Most gave her money until the police asked her to move along. Her fowl mouth has brought many of the dress-clothes clad warriors to a blushing faced finish.

Messenger sees one of these nicely dressed men throw away his lunch, apparently he is disgusted by Teri. Messenger takes this lunch and fills himself on the French fries and some of the bread, he strictly stays away from meat. The spitting wall turns on and he decides to go take a quick drink. The water washes down the food, yet it leaves a chemical taste. The people around are mostly drinking soft drinks from covered cups which he stays away from.

Returning to his place by the bean he thinks of taking a nap, hoping that the police will leave him alone. Before he can close his eyes he sees her again. She's drinking the water from the spitting wall. None of the dress-clothes clad crowd noticed her as she was not screaming profanity at them. He quickly approaches her and as she sees him she stands up straight. He curses himself for having eaten so much, as that bloated feeling comes back. Walking fast, Messenger tries to ignore the feeling that's passing over him, but as he gets right next to her he bows and throws up all the French fries.

The call that came from Fancier right then was a relief and he promptly headed to the office. He was embarrassed and feeling like a damn cartoon character who threw up on the girl he liked when she said his name. As he headed off he notices her bowing as well, he hopes she could control her sympathetic reflexes. Arriving as promptly as possible, Fancier gives him a drink of water, this time there is a slice of orange in it. The ice cold water washes the French fried embarrassment away.

"You need to stay and wait for the reply, understand?" Fancier asks. Messenger takes the bag knowing this is a rhetorical question and there is no need to wait around. This is the long delivery, on the outside of the city, Messenger hates leaving the city. More than three hours later he arrives, tired and thinking of nothing but a glass of Fancier's water, even with orange in it.

"Starting to warm up out there." The Far-deliver woman says. "Let me get you a drink." Messenger happily accepts it as she takes from him the messenger bag. He looks closely but sees only a clean container. The water in the clean container is tepid but has none of the city chemical taste. He drinks several long drinks before she gives the bag back with her reply. "You were thirsty. Are you hungry as well?"

Messenger, thinking of the French fries leaves quickly at the thought of food. The afternoon has faded to early evening when he reaches the city limits. Messenger knows he won't make it to Fancier's office, his number one rule makes it clear he can't go to the Mission when he's carrying a delivery. He needs a brief respite, remembering the small park with benches which are always empty at this time he heads there.

Arriving he finds that someone has thrown out a portion of their submarine sandwich. He fills his burning stomach on the bread and settles down for a rest, which turns into a nap. His dreams are filled with 'her', only the Shadow is killing her and Messenger is forced to watch, until he wakes to the sound of a police officer waking up a man who was sleeping on the bench opposite him.

Heading to Fancier's messenger service, he knows his employer will be displeased. Messenger hadn't meant to fall asleep, he shouldn't have stopped but the shadow had ruined his sleep last night and there was that early call from Fancier. None of that is going to matter though when he is several hours late.

"You are taking longer and longer on these deliveries." Fancier said, in his best reproving voice. No water was offered, a very bad sign. "I will call you if I can't fill my needs with my others." And with that, Messenger left into the early morning.

Several hours later Messenger was still thinking about the other ones, Fancier had mentioned they were from the fancy complexes themselves. Knowing there are always people in the park at this time, although there are also a lot of dogs, the begging is usually easy. He finds himself correct again, the Tuesday crowd here is generous. Looking forward to the movie that plays in the park on Tuesday's he wanders around wasting time.

She was there, looking under the benches, possibly for scraps the visitors may have dropped. When she sees him he thinks of their last meeting, the fact that she doesn't just fly away fills him with hope. He walks quickly toward her, the bloated feeling and the nausea overwhelms him again. He bows thinking he may be sick again but he can't throw up. When she bows down to see if he is ok he wants to dance and shout. The movie is starting and they head over together to watch it. This time he really does jump and do a mini-pirouette.

When the movie ends they go their separate ways. He heads back to his place under the 'L' elated that they will be seeing each other again tomorrow. The crowd under the tracks is back to full capacity, the events of a couple nights before having been forgotten.

Messenger gets into the webbing of a nearby I-beam and falls asleep. Hours later he wakes up to relieve himself, the Shadow is nearby he knows it, he can feel it. Pulling himself into the protection of the I-beam he hides, he sees it just feet away, another of the invisibles becomes a victim to the Shadow. The death occurs without a sound, Messenger, too frightened to flee, pulls himself against the metal and allows it's safe shadow to envelop him.
Part Four

The Wednesday morning 'L' wakes Messenger. The vibrations not to be ignored breaks free a small chunk of rusted metal which bounces off his back. He opens his eyes to see the rats and roaches cleaning the blood and gore just feet away. He heads to the mission to clean up, he knows that even if Fancier is still mad at him, his 'Others' can't handle the second busiest day of the week alone.

Drinking the water as he washes he tastes his own filth, Messenger reflects on the week, two less invisibles and no one cares to ask how these things keep happening? He then focuses on the meeting with 'her' later and finishes washing. He decides which area of the city to find this morning's meal he determines the train station makes the most sense. People getting onto a train will typically throw away the food they had been snacking on while they waited. After he finished eating, thoughts of her still dancing through his head, a call from Fancier came and Messenger headed off trying to make double time to get to him.

"Nice, I called all the messengers and you got here first." Fancier said as he proffered the water which this time contains raspberries. Messenger wished he hadn't eaten so much. The glacial water had taken the taste of the berries and he couldn't resist eating two before he left on his delivery to the Rich man. The crowded streets were full of crazy cab drivers honking, changing lanes and flailing their arms out the window of their cabs this morning. He easily weaved through the streets arriving at the luxurious apartment. The Rich man invited him in, taking the bag. The table that last time had fruit and bread this time had nuts and bread. Messenger drank the bottled water the Rich man had poured in a crystal glass.

"Ok, you be safe out there," the Rich man said shooing him out before he's gotten his fill of water.

Returning to the office, Messenger couldn't help but think about the meeting he was supposed to have with 'her' later tonight. He paid very close attention to the traffic, especially the tall trucks that seemed like small moving buildings, as he made his way. "That was very fast. He really is having serious problems, this wasn't even his normal day, I suppose we're building a stronger need in him. Guess that's how it goes. That was much better I have another one for you." Fancier said taking the contents of the bag, green folded paper and refilling it with two colorful balloons.

Heading back to the dirty house he wondered why the deflated balloons were worth the delivery, Messenger was not really concerned; he simply wanted today to be over. He knocked on the side door as before, this time the Dirty man answered it much quicker.

"Come in," he said and quickly took the bag handing it to another man. The Dirty man offered some water. "You know I think you made me sick last time you were here." Messenger thought about his throwing up and wondered if he had in fact given him the flu. If he had, good was all he could think.

"There's nothing," the second man said walking back in the room.

"Damn." Dirty man exclaimed making Messenger step back, knocking the glass of water off the counter. "Shit." Dirty man said as the glass shattered on the floor. "Here take this and go." Messenger took the bag and headed back to the office.
Part 5

"I think I can trust you to make this delivery and make it back today?" Fancier said not really asking. Messenger knows it's the long delivery, he drinks some of the nearly frozen water and eats a couple raspberries then leaves, heading out of the city limits again.

"I don't think you like coming out here much." The Far-delivery woman says as she takes the bag from Messenger and offers him a drink. As before the water was tepid but Messenger enjoys the well water knowing the chlorine in the city water has to be eating his insides. "Alright," is all she says returning the special messenger bag as she found it.

The long trip back to the office was exhausting but Messenger knew he had no choice but to make it, for both Fancier and the promise he made to meet 'her' later. Arriving, he sat himself on the counter and hoped there were no more deliveries. "One of my others didn't return from a delivery, I guess it wasn't just you. Enough about that, you made good time on that last delivery. You need to hydrate and then take the rest of the afternoon off." Fancier offers him some more of the water with raspberries. Messenger drinks, enjoying the sensation of the cold water tinted with the berry taste.

Heading out to explore the city, Messenger sees several Taxi wars in the making. He also sees Tourette Teri harassing another group of people. He heads down the miracle mile and enjoys the freedom of knowing he isn't going to be getting a call any second. Finding the statues of the various famous people, he stops to watch the passing crowds as the tourists explore the newness of the city. While the citizenry push their way passed without apologies; Messenger wonders what France is like.

Leaving his watching perch he starts the trek back to meet her. The traffic is insane, the taxi drivers are inventing new expletives today. Some of their fares were even getting out in the middle of the traffic jam to walk the rest of the way.

Eventually he reaches the bean. Walking around looking for her he hears a tourist who was looking at himself in its reflection telling his partner, "It is called the Cloud Gate not the Bean."

"I don't care what it's called. It looks like a giant mirrored bean to me." Was the response from the other man. As Messenger continues to look at his reflection in the sculpture, getting a kick out of the conversation, in the bean he sees her sneaking up on him. When he turns, stopping her advance, she heads off and he follows.

They tour the city together for hours. Eventually, they stop at a deserted Masonic temple and head inside. Once inside, the overall creepiness of their surroundings leads Messenger to pick up a stick. As he watches her walking around the building, looking at the burned remnants from its past glory, he is struck by the overall nothingness combined with imagined prowling shadows. Without realizing, he has crept to her side. When she eventually stops, she turns to him. He responds by dropping the stick and going in for physical contact.

The sound echoing from the dropped stick surprises him and he turns to look around, quickly realizing how stupid he must appear he turns back. She'd taken that moment to sit down on the floor; his keen eye seeing that the stick was protruding from under her. He sits down next to her enjoying the warmth of her against him. What happened next is strictly between them.
Part 6

The call that came from Fancier woke him early the next morning. He looked down upon her sleeping quietly. He decided to let her sleep a bit longer as it may be a short delivery and he could get back to her before she knew he'd left. Heading across town as quickly as possible he arrives at the messenger service office.

"Good morning, you need to wait for a reply on this one." Fancier said and offered a drink with blackberries in it. Messenger drank deeply from the numbing water, eating a couple of the blackberries before heading out.

Messenger knew the address, it was the dirty house. Not wanting to go but having no choice, he arrived and knocked at the side door. The Dirty man answered the door, as he stepped into the house he took the messenger bag and handed it to the other man. Messenger noticed the man's blue shirt went all the way to his fingertips, odd.

"We got it!" the other man's voice yelled moments later from the other room.

"Yes!" The Dirty man said just before he roughly grabbed Messenger and threw him into a dark room off to the side of the kitchen.

As his eyes adjusted he realized there were two of the 'Others' in here. Also there was bread and water sitting on the shelves. Messenger panicked and started fruitlessly crashing into the door. The last thing he heard from the other side of the door was the word 'warrant', then everything out there went silent. He knew he would not be making it back to her today; he sat down and fell into a funk.

The light from under the door got dark and then became light again before there was any sound outside the door. "They're in that closet." Messenger heard and he readied himself, as the door opened he rushed passed the unsuspecting man in a brown shirt. He made it all the way out the open side door.

Messenger didn't stop his breakneck pace until there was no question he was not being pursued. He headed straight for Fancier hoping he would understand this wasn't his fault, not even noticing that it was storming outside. Arriving at the messenger service he saw the Dirty man guiding Fancier out to a car with flashing lights on the top. Fancier's hands were behind his back. "We have all your messengers. We finally got your finger print on one of your balloons." The Dirty man was saying.

It was time for Messenger to get back to her. This was obviously not going to be a work day. He took his time getting back as he didn't want to go on streets that the police frequented in case the word had gotten out that he escaped.

The rain had stopped by the time he arrived at the large abandoned temple. His paranoia had reached its limit, he entered trying to look as if he belonged. Heading to the place he left her he found the stick laying on the ground which was now covered in dried blood. The area was strewn with droppings of the rats and roaches that had visited. His soul was crushed, he knew she had waited, why hadn't he woken her and let her know he was leaving... The Shadow in front of him opened its eyes and this time they focused directly on him and proved to be golden.

The same reflexes that helped him escape the collision with the taxi earlier this week, would now allow him to avoid the attacking Shadow that had taken the lives of so many invisibles, including her. Messenger made an insane dash from the temple, looking back to see if the Shadow was in pursuit. He didn't see the black taxi that he ran in front of until it was far too late for those stellar reflexes to make a difference.

He lay in a puddle on the side of the road, the cars didn't stop and the people walking by didn't look over at him. He was one of the city's invisibles. The water from the puddle was in his mouth, it was warm and tasted of dirt and oil from the road but it also tasted of blood, his blood. Things started to go dark.

"Mommy, look that pigeon is hurt." Messenger heard, then he felt his body being lifted and ice cold water from the little girl's bottle washed the puddle taste from his mouth. From this new vantage point he watched a black cat leaving the abandoned temple.

The room changed back from the cityscape of Chicago. Joshua looked across the still quiet faces. "It was a pigeon? The entire time?" Fred asked.

"Yes it was."

"Ok I do believe in magic!" AJ said.

"I could actually see the "L" and feel the rust ball hitting my back!" Judas said.

"Ew and I could smell the wafting city smell." J said.

"When the Shadow opens its eyes on him at the end, they actually were glowing right in front of me." Peter said.

"And you jumped back into me!" Aubrey poked.

"That my friends, is how the Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast works. The story plays out in front of and sometimes includes us." Joshua said.

"Each story that's told will change the house and guests forever!" Molly added.
Chapter Fifty-Three – Departing

"Thank you so much for all your help." Molly stood off the dock hugging everyone.

"AJ," Joshua called the boy over to the boat.

"Yes sir?" AJ asked, his headphones were around his neck and ready for the boat trip, but they were switched off.

"I want you to have this." Joshua handed him an old snow globe, inside it was a sled hill with a lonely sled riding on it. A moment later the sled wrote 'AJ let's go for a ride,' on the side of the hill, followed by a boy getting on the sled. The sled carrying the boy came closer and closer until AJ could see his own laughing face, but only for a moment as his hat blew off and it obscured the view from within the globe. When the hat zoomed out of sight the globe had returned to normal. "Do you like it?"

"It's really cool." AJ reached up and wiped the snow from his hair. "Actually it's pretty cold!" He took the snow globe and hugged Joshua.

"What the heck AJ you're getting snow on the deck!" Peter said.

The hugs continued and one by one they finally got on the boat. "The Bucket!" Cookie yelled from the screen door.

"Oh yeah. Snow, take this bucket just in case!" Joshua said handing the bucket to his old friend. "We don't want you violating any treaties on your ride home."

"Good plan!" J said.
Only the Purple Otter gets the Last Word!!!

I hope you enjoyed the Pilot Episode for The Storyteller's Bed and Breakfast. Please click on the title to leave a review. Each and every review is very important to independent authors. As we don't have the juggernaut support staffs that the major authors/publishers do.

When Joshua told his story to his friends they were transformed into the world of the Invisibles. If you didn't know much about pigeons before, you have just learned a bunch about them by reading this story. Let me point out a few: those who raise pigeons are called Fanciers, pigeon's mating rituals consist of bloating their feathers, walking quickly, bowing and yes even regurgitating food. If the selected partner bows and eats the food in reply the next step is for the female to select a location for their nest. When she finally stops, the male will lift a stick from the area and pick the specific location near where she waits, when he drops the stick if she sits on the stick that's where he builds the nest.

Looking forward to seeing how the first guests react to the house and the stories they will tell? The next installments are planned to come out once a month. STBB Season one, Episode one, will be available in September.

The general idea behind STBB is to test the waters for our next stand alone or series novels. If you would like to see other stories in this riddle fashion let us know via email (link below) or reviews and comments (link above). We are, after all, here for you.

Lastly, drop an email to APGuild@outlook.com to join our email list, for a monthly newsletter, opportunity for free copies of upcoming books and... when we've reached 100 subscribers we will be starting a weekly installment short story for our subscribers only.

Xavier P. Otter III

Visit the Purple Otter Syndicate!!!
