

HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

By
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...

HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

By

    SUCCESS IS NOT

HAPPINESS...

HAPPINESS IS

SUCCESS

By

Copyright © AiR Institute of Realization 2019

AiR asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of this book.

ISBN 978-93-5361-693-9

All rights reserved.

No part of the content (of this publication except images) may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher.

Printed in India by Navya Graphics

No-8, 12th Main,14th Cross, Lakkasandra Extn., Wilson Garden, Bangalore-560030

Publisher: AiR

Kemp Fort Mall, No-97, Old Airport Road, Bangalore-560017

  "          "

 CONTENTS

What Is

  * Success?

Why Do People

  * Want To Succeed?

Keys To Success

  * Are Not Keys To Happiness

Success Is Not

  * Happiness

What Is

  * Happiness?

The 3 Peaks

  * Of Happiness

1-9

10-20

21-29

30-39

40-47

48-60

7 | Happiness Is | 61-70

---|---|---

In The Now!

8 | Happiness Is | 71-82

Success

9 | Success Is Not |

Happiness... | 83-95

 | Happiness Is Success |

Afterword | My Happiness Journey | 96-108

---|---|---

Poem | Success Is Not Happiness... | 109-112

Happiness Is Success

 |

About The Author | Atman Or The Soul In Ravi, | 113-124

 | Is An Embodied Soul |

 PREFACE

All Successful people are not Happy

But all Happy people are Successful

The whole world is seeking Success

Everybody wants to succeed. Somebody wants to be a billionaire while somebody else wants to win the World Cup. An actor wants to make it to the Oscars, just as a child wants to get the first rank in class. If we observe humanity, everybody seems to be in a chase to become an ace. Everybody wants to be an achiever, a winner! Nobody wants to be a loser. Why is the whole world in this race for Success? What is the reward of Success that makes people so passionate to win?

What does Success actually create?

If one goes deep into the psychology of winning, one will realize that people want to win because this makes them Happy, just as failure makes somebody miserable. Thus, somebody may seek millions but
    somebody else may be modestly content by getting a fraction of that wealth. It doesn't matter what the achievement is but every achievement creates a euphoria of joy and bliss. The joy and excitement winning creates is what makes people so obsessed with Success.

If we give an artist some money, it may not make him Happy, just as a beautiful painting may not satisfy a millionaire. Different people want different achievements. But there is one thing that everyone wants from their achievement – to be Happy!

Can there be an achievement that makes a person miserable? Such an achievement can never be called Success. People want to succeed and they do everything possible to win because they want to be Happy. It is Happiness that drives Success. Some may feel excited after achieving Success, but ultimately, people want to succeed because Success gives Happiness.

In fact, humanity, by and large, believes that Success is like a cause, of which Happiness is the effect. Just like there can
    be no effect without the cause, they think that there can be no Happiness without Success. But is this true?

The illusion - "Success = Happiness"

In reality, the belief that Success equals Happiness is an illusion. No doubt Success creates a sense of gratification that makes us Happy. But an in-depth analysis will reveal that we were already Happy in the first place. The desire for Success creates agitation and the achievement of that desire takes us back to our original state of peace and bliss. Somehow, we believe that without Success there is no Happiness. This is a myth, an illusion. In fact, the desire for Success can create misery when the goal is not achieved. Then, we lose our peace and joy, which we originally enjoyed.

What is real Happiness?

Real Happiness is beyond achievement. It is contentment and fulfillment. The richest man in the world is not the happiest man. There are people who may not be so wealthy financially, but they are happier than the millionaires. This reverses the belief – it is the Happiest
    man who is truly the Richest man. Yes, true wealth doesn't lie in the achievements and monetary gains but in the Happiness quotient of a person's life.

Let's change our paradigm

It's time for us to realize the Truth. Instead of chasing Success to be Happy, we should try to be Happy. That is true Success. Those reading this for the first time may think that it is just a tongue twister. It's not! It's a principle that humanity must learn.

What do we truly want?

Do we want to be like a successful tycoon who is unable to sleep at night? Do we want to be one amongst those achievers who end their life in suicide? Would we prefer to live with millions in the bank but also have stress, worry, and anxiety or would we choose peace and tranquillity along with Happiness? Of what use is it to gain the whole world, but lose our peace and joy?

  "

  "

01

WHAT IS SUCCESS?

1
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

Success is Achievement. It is a fulfillment of desires. It is the shooting of a goal. While Success is a simple word, it is very complicated to understand why Success sometimes creates Happiness and occasionally, makes us miserable.

Success according to the world

People think that Success is just being an Achiever. It is about winning and being famous. It is being one of the 'who's who' of society. Generally, people are considered successful if they achieve something noteworthy in their field of endeavour. So, one can be a successful businessman but a total failure as a father. Whatever the success be, it's understood that Success, achievement, and winning not only give us material wealth but also Happiness.

Accomplishment does not always create Happiness

No doubt, every accomplishment creates excitement, but why is it that though we win, we are sometimes unhappy? A sportsman may get a prize of US$ 10,000 but he cries in misery because he lost the first prize of US$ 25,000. Isn't it strange that achievement can,

2
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

sometimes, make us miserable? We, human beings are generally greedy and are never content with what we get. We always want more and more. Therefore, Success is not really Achievement. It is beyond that. It is that sense of Achievement that causes contentment. This doesn't always happen. Although we seem to be successful, we are often not satisfied with our achievement and yearn for that distant dream that remains unfulfilled and thus postpone our Happiness.

Success is Achievement

Even a blind person will say Success is Achievement. If we achieve something, we are successful and we are successful when we win. But what about that person who is successful but does not achieve the objective of being successful - for instance, someone who earned millions to marry a girl but then found out that she had already married his best friend. His heart breaks, even though he is a successful millionaire, he cries. His Success could not achieve the Happiness that it was meant to derive. Therefore, Success has a deeper meaning. It is not just what the dictionary defines it as. True Success, actually, is that sense of peace, joy, and

3
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

bliss that comes after the accomplishment. If the achievement doesn't give that sense of tranquillity and ecstasy, then is it really Success?

Why is Success different for different people?

That is why Success is not the same for everybody. When Michelangelo was painting his famous piece of art in the Sistine Chapel, his friends wanted to spend some fun time together. They even came out and called, "Michel, why are you tirelessly doing that painting far up in the ceiling. Who will see it?" Michelangelo is said to have answered, "God will!" To him, Success was different from eating, drinking and gallivanting with friends. Thus, comes the saying, "One man's food is another one's poison." What Success is to me, may mean nothing to you. Why? Because the outcome of my Success makes me Happy, but the same doesn't give you fulfillment. Thus, Success is different to different people, only because different people don't find the same Happiness in a specific achievement.

Success is not just money and wealth

The world, generally, thinks that money is Success and

4
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

so is achievement of name and fame. But a deeper peek into Success will reveal that Success has a more profound objective. No doubt that Success is achievement, but of what? Is it an achievement of misery? Of course not! It is the achievement of joy. If some Success or achievement made you sad rather than glad, would you call it Success? Have you ever found people shedding tears of misery when they receive their reward of Success? Never! Though we may never realize it. Success is Success when it generates Happiness. Somehow, over time, we have become blind to the final objective of Success. We tend to believe that Success is all about money, name, fame, wealth, and achievement. There are people who may have millions in the bank, but they don't consider themselves successful because they have misery in their hearts. They think of themselves as miserable failures.

Success becomes a habit

Most unfortunately, the biggest problem with Success is that it becomes a habit. A winner must always win and his misery starts with the psychological pressure that comes from being a winner. He has far more stress

5
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

in protecting his title of Success than the joy he gets from achieving it. Of what use is such an achievement if it creates more stress than Happiness? The winners can't take losing as an option. If they lose, they seem to drown in an ocean of misery. This habit of winning is bound to make us miserable because we don't always win. When we lose, we are devastated and we cry. But why? Can somebody be a winner all the time? We know we can't. Eventually, one day, every champion has to make way for another. This, unfortunately, creates more misery than Happiness and it seems that Success has lost its true meaning.

Secrets of Success

People around the world spend a lot of time, resources, and energy discovering the secrets of Success. These are actually principles that can create Success and include how to manage money, people, and time. Some people also rely upon the secrets of other successful people like Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Mahatma Gandhi, Walt Disney, Bill Gates, and Steve Jobs. Motivational books are available on the principles of

6
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

Success used by the world's greatest people. But while there may be several secrets behind Success that successful people imbibed, there is one secret that is the master secret. It is this – Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success. A very few of the most successful people in the world have discovered this secret.

Success is not Happiness

This is absolutely true but difficult to believe. Success is Achievement but Success is not always Happiness. Because Success, sometimes, causes misery, it is safe to say that Success is not Happiness. Therefore, most of humanity that pursues Success with passion, should stop for a moment and think – if they achieve Success but don't achieve Happiness, is it worth dedicating their entire life to such Success? Food for thought!

7
    WHAT IS SUCCESS?

  "

  "

8
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 1

WHAT IS SUCCESS?

  * Success is Achievement - a fulfilment of desires.

  * Although every accomplishment creates excitement but true Success is that sense of achievement that creates Happiness.

  * Success is different to different people because different people do not get the same Happiness from a specific achievement.

  * We tend to believe that Success is all about money, name, fame, wealth, and achievement. But if an achievement made us sad rather than glad, would we call it Success?

  * The biggest problem with Success is that it becomes a habit, which eventually creates stress and misery when we fail.

  * We can learn principles or the secrets of Success from successful people in the world. But not everyone has discovered the most important secret - Success is not

Happiness, Happiness is Success.

9

02

WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

10
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

The real reason why we want Success is that we get tremendous joy when we achieve Success - whoever it is, whatever be the goal. If there is no Happiness, then we would not chase Success as if our life depends on it. Whatever be the achievement, it is pursued because of the fulfillment it derives on accomplishment.

Who doesn't want to Succeed?

Right from childhood, we are taught to desire Success. We study hard in school to get the first rank. Then we wake up in the morning to practise our favourite sport so that we can win the trophy. If we don't play sports, it may be debates or art. But every child is coached to be a winner. Do you know anybody who is taught how to be a loser? It seems that each human being is born with an intuitive desire to be successful. However, in reality, there is something beyond. All of humanity is born to seek Happiness. That is why we are all on a journey called 'Success'.

Everybody is in a Success race

From womb to tomb, we seem to be madly in love with

11
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

victory. Winning is not the main thing - It is the only thing. We use fair and foul means to be a winner, but we don't stop to think, "Why?" We all know that everybody in this world is passionate to succeed, but we don't realize why we are so obsessed with Success - we just go on increasing our pace so that we can win the race and be an Ace. Though we may lose our grace, and become a prisoner in a maze, we don't mend our ways. We just run and run till life is done. Does anybody stop to think what will Success ultimately lead to? We are born in this world without anything and when we depart, we take nothing with us. Then why this crazy passion to be a winner?

Why is everybody seeking Success?

The reason we are so excited to succeed is because of the exhilaration it assures us of, the excitement it delivers and ultimately, the Happiness it promises. It starts with the desire to succeed which is followed up with a lot of effort till ultimately, we win or we lose. No one wins all the time, isn't it? Therefore, life is like a merry-go-round and we go around in circles. Just like the earth experiences day and night, we too experience being

12
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

glad and sad as we go round and round in pursuit of Success experiencing failures too.

What is the ultimate objective?

There is no doubt that the ultimate objective of Success is not just victory or accomplishment but the joy and bliss that comes with it. If there is no Happiness at the end of the road then we would not walk that road. Who chases Success that has no reward? We play a game to win the cup, we do business to make money, and whatever anybody does, there is an objective which ultimately seeks Happiness. It may not always be material Success. An artist may want to paint a painting but ultimately, his Success is the joy after it is done. Some politicians may not be corrupt but they enjoy the name and fame. Some religious leaders are not seeking money, but they get excited with the power of the congregation. In the final analysis, whoever it is, and whatever we do, the expectation from Success is Happiness.

Will Success create Happiness?

We all think this is true, that Success creates Happiness.

13
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

If somebody declares that Success does not deliver Happiness, there would be a big controversy and debate. Of course, Success is Happiness. Everybody succeeds to be Happy and every Success delivers joy but deep introspection will prove otherwise. Success may be a journey and on the highway, we may pass milestones of joy, pleasure, and excitement but we will also experience road-bumps of anxiety, crashes of failure, and moments of fear and stress. No journey of Success promises Happiness without hurdles. In fact, a detailed analysis will show that Success takes away Happiness too just as it creates it, though it is hard to believe but that is the Truth.

Are only Successful people Happy?

If we look around us, what do we find? Who are the truly Happy ones? Are they the only ones who are successful? Various studies have indicated that while Success delivers a sense of achievement, people pursuing Success are stressed out. The stress starts when the desire for Success is born. The struggle for Success creates so much anxiety that when Success is

14
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

achieved, there is sometimes dissatisfaction as one compares one's achievement with the achievement of others and that leaves one unfulfilled. The rich and famous are also, at times, stressed in protecting their wealth and Success, be it money in the bank, past fame or title achieved – it takes a lot to protect these, and Happiness derived from achieving Success gets dissipated by the stress and fear caused to protect it.

On the other hand, we find people who are not very successful but who are moderate achievers, living with far more peace and joy. Why is this so? Because they live with contentment. While successful people are ruled by their greed and this drives them to work like slaves, the ones who are content are satisfied with the fulfillment of their needs and they enjoy peace that is far more fulfilling than the pleasure Success delivers.

If successful, rich, and famous people were truly Happy, then we wouldn't hear of so many suicides in the homes of the millionaires in the world.

Who are the truly Happy ones?

Happy are those who are content with their achievement.

15
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

What is the point in having a lot of money in the bank but no smile on our face? Success is not a game of numbers. The truly successful people in the world are those achievers who are also Happy. If Success is surrounded by worry, stress, envy, hate, and jealousy, how could such Success create Happiness? It seems that there is no direct connection between Success and Happiness. If Success was directly proportionate to Happiness, then the more you succeed, the more Happiness you would have. But this is not true. People with little Success have tons of Happiness, just as people who have tons of Success, live with little peace and joy.

So, is Success equal to Happiness?

What do you think? While you too may be amongst those who want Success because you want to be Happy with your Success, do you still believe that Success is equal to Happiness? Is it necessarily true that every Success will bring with it loads of joy? By now you should realize that Success is not Happiness, although we perceive that every achievement will make us joyous.

Somehow, over the centuries, man has lived with this

16
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

illusion thinking that Success is Happiness. This belief has driven humanity to succeed and to win, no matter what! It seems that people all over the world are seeking Success, and with the achievement of it, a sense of pleasure, joy, and Happiness. It is so obvious that the desire for Success, its pursuit, and its achievement, does create pleasure and joy along the way, but at the end of the day, it also takes all of that away. Like a yo-yo, we go up and down in our Happiness-index. Like a pendulum, we swing from joy to sorrow, irrespective of how much Success we achieve. Therefore, Success is not Happiness but if Success is not Happiness, then what is?

If we look around, what do we see?

It seems like the whole world is on a mad chase running after Success. The successful ones are so addicted to it that they can't distance themselves from it and the ones who haven't tasted Success, so passionately crave for it, thinking that Success is the best thing in the world. However, careful observation of the rich, famous, and successful people of the world will show us that they may be proud of their achievements \- living in posh

17
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

villas, driving expensive cars, but many of them lack a smile on their faces. Their heart doesn't dance. Why? Because the aura of Success itself creates an environment where true Happiness doesn't bloom. It is rare to find very wealthy and successful people living with humility and peace. We cannot blame such people but rather, Success, because it is Success that causes them to become so.

In the beginning, when Success appears on the horizon, there is so much Happiness, joy, and peace. But thereafter, we lose these gifts to Success. We think that more Success will bring more Happiness. But we don't realize that after a point, Success starts to steal the very Happiness it promised us in the first place.

18
    WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

  "

  "

19
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 2

WHY DO PEOPLE WANT TO SUCCEED?

  * The only reason why people want Success is because we get tremendous joy when we achieve it.

  * We all are on a journey called 'Success'. All of humanity is born to seek Happiness.

  * The reason why everybody is seeking Success is because of the Happiness it promises.

  * Success is Happiness, but no journey of Success promises Happiness without unhappiness.

  * Successful people are not necessarily Happy people.

  * The truly successful people in the world are those achievers who are also Happy, content, and at peace.

  * Success does not promise Happiness. In fact, in the end, we lose our bliss and tranquility.

  * If Success is not Happiness, then what is?

20

03

KEYS TO SUCCESS

ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

21
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

What are the keys to Success? To unlock the door of achievement, what are the necessary factors? While there may be many, there are some key factors. You can't succeed unless you want to, therefore you must have 'Desire.' Those who desire Success, can't achieve it unless they actually work on it. So there needs to be 'Passion' and hard work that brings to the table all the ingredients for Success. This is not the end. Another key to Success is to be able to retain it. Those who can't are only Fly-by-Night Achievers as they are called or winners who are just lucky. Truly successful people know how to be on the peak of Success and how to stay there. It's a big challenge.

The first key is Desire

Nobody can succeed without a desire to succeed. You cannot wish for Success and be successful. You must really want it. Unless there is a burning desire, Success will elude us. Does desire actually create Happiness? To the blind aspirant of Success, it does. But to any onlooker, it is clear beyond doubt that desire creates ripples of anxiety and worry. It steals our peace of

22
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

mind. The desire places inside us a virtual high-speed motor that increases our speed of thought and action. Not only do we desire Success, but along with it, we set our mind on the end result we desire. While this is a key to Success, it creates much stress and unhappiness. If there was desire and no Success, even the successful ones will agree that such a desire doesn't create any Happiness if the end result is not achieved. Therefore, it is an illusion to believe, that desire itself creates Happiness, although all Success aspirants tend to believe so.

The second key is Passion

Is desire enough to achieve Success? Of course not! Wishing for Success is only the start. Thus, they say, "If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride." It takes a lot more than just to 'wish Success', desire victory or even dream of it. One needs to be passionately awake, working both hard and smart on their goal. Ask any successful person and they will tell you that Success is not an easy game. In today's world, you need to be really passionate about what you want. Your desire must be backed with

23
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

faith, hope, enthusiasm, resources, and leadership skills. Without all the efforts, Success will remain a dream.

Does Passion actually create Happiness? Of course not! It does create excitement because the achievement is at the end of the road, but it carries with it a load of pressure. Sometimes such passion steals our life. It takes away not just moments of joy that we deprive ourselves of, but days, weeks, months and years of our life. It seems like we trade our life for the desired Success. In the end, it is ironical that we give away our life and we achieve Success, but we have no life left to enjoy it. Of what use is such Success? Thus, said a wise man, "Success is a journey, not a destination."

While it is good to desire Success and be passionate about our goals, we must be conscious of the Truth. What are we truly seeking? Recently, a young millionaire who was detected with cancer quoted from his hospital bed, "if only I had spent my time spending my money, rather than making it, I would have died a happier man!" Passion for Success makes us blind and while it is an

24
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

important key to unlock the doors of Success, it can also be a torch to burn our Happiness.

Desire leads to disappointment

Does every desire end in Success? Of course not! Some desires are fulfilled and some are not. Man, however, due to his overconfidence and passion thinks he is capable of making anything possible. In that drive to being successful, he is not in a mood to accept failure. But you can't reach destination Success, without passing failures on the way. When desires are not accomplished, these lead to tremendous disappointments and this dejection creates a lot of misery and sorrow. Therefore, while desire is a key to Success, it eventually guarantees to make us miserable. If only man understood this before starting his drive to succeed, he would probably think twice. Of course, it is good to achieve moderate Success, but the desires that make us miserable are mostly those that are controlled by our greed and passion. There is no doubt that desires will lead to disappointment somewhere along the Success journey and this is hard to digest for those who are blindly passionate about Success.

25
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

Why do Successful people seem miserable?

While people have all the keys to Success, and sometimes they carry keys to all the wealth locked in treasure boxes, they do not have the key to Happiness. This is what they were seeking in the first place, but this is lost in the race for Success. Let us understand why.

As we grow up in life, we live with the pleasure-pain principle. Every human being desires pleasure just as we desist pain. Somehow, we learn to believe that Success or achievement gives us this pleasure and Happiness. Every time a desire is fulfilled, we enjoy the excitement and joy that comes with it. Therefore, the desire for Success is woven into our belief system.

An ordinary person starts his life-journey and tastes Success. It gives him a lot of Happiness and so he desires more Success and becomes passionate about it. He doesn't realize that the initial taste of Happiness is lost as he becomes a slave to his own cravings and desires. He lives a life of fear and anxiety, stress and worry and trades those moments of Happiness that he otherwise enjoyed in a game called - Success. First, he

26
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

enjoyed fulfilling his needs. It gave him tremendous Happiness. But then, greed became his master and his own desires flogged him to achieve Success one after the other. His passion makes him so blind that he doesn't realize this until he reaches the end of his life.

Then man regrets and says, "If I had my life to live over again, I would spend more time doing the things I love. I would travel the world, watch more sunsets, and trek more mountains. I would visit more countries and meet more people. I would spend time with those who I truly love. But now it is too late. Life is over and it cannot be reversed." We see many successful men living with regret. Though they are called successful and termed as winners, they have no sense of contentment and fulfillment. They hide and cry to themselves, as they are not satisfied with their life. First, they were driving Success, but before they could realize it, Success started driving them and they lost control of their life. Though they are successful, they are unhappy.

There are some who don't even realize they are unhappy. They have achieved Success after Success

27
    KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

and they are so busy protecting their wealth, empire, name and fame, that their life ends doing this. They breathe their last at a conference table or while meeting their bank manager and they don't even realize that somewhere down the line, they forgot to live doing the things they love. Such people end their life with a lot of Success around their tombstones, but no Happiness as they reach their grave.

  "

  "

28
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 3

KEYS TO SUCCESS ARE NOT KEYS TO HAPPINESS

  * There are many keys to unlock the door of achievement, victory, and Success.

  * The first key is desire. Without a burning desire, Success will elude us.

  * But desire also creates anxiety, worry, stress and steals our peace of mind, leading to unhappiness.

  * The second key is passion - a passion to succeed, that creates persistence and perseverance.

  * All these keys promise Success, but eventually, steal our Happiness.

  * Desire will lead to disappointment somewhere along the Success journey and this creates misery for those who are passionate about Success.

  * We are ultimately seeking Happiness through Success. But we end up achieving Success, not Happiness.

29

04

SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

30
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

Boris was a millionaire in California. One day he shared how Success had fooled him. "Success invited me to become the happiest man in the world and I gave up everything to be successful. First, I gave up my youth to get my masters in medicine. Then, I gave up my family to be a successful neurosurgeon. And finally, I gave up my life to build a huge hospital. Today, I have millions in the bank, but I am suffering from blood cancer. My family has left me and moved on. I have unfulfilled wishes... I want to do all those things that I loved to do, but I sacrificed them for my Success." Boris had tears in his eyes. Here was a successful, rich doctor who seemed to have all the Success in the world, but was still miserable. He had just one thing to say, "Success is not Happiness! Today, I am unhappy that the only thing I wanted in my life was Success. How I wish Success had not fooled me into believing that it is Happiness!"

Of course, Success makes us feel great!

Peep into the lives of successful people, stars like Michael Jackson. They were super successful, but were they truly Happy? Success creates a euphoria, no doubt, and the ecstasy pushes us beyond our limits, but it doesn't give us true and eternal Happiness. Just like

31
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

money can buy a bed, but not sleep, it can buy medicine, but not health, it can buy a diamond ring, but not love - Success can create excitement, but it cannot give us the peace and bliss that true Happiness brings.

Success creates pleasure but it doesn't last

Only fools will deny that Success creates pleasure. But greater fools would be those people who think that the pleasure from Success gives eternal Happiness. Material pleasures make us Happy for the moment, but not beyond that. Soon, we start seeking something else and that pleasure which gave joy, evaporates like mist in the morning Sun. The momentary excitement delivered by Success, creates short term Happiness, only to make us thirsty for more at the end of the road. The end result is that Success makes us thirsty for more and more and leaves us there.

Sunil runs a huge import-export office in Dubai and he shared his life story. "Sometimes, we make big money in a deal, but sometimes we lose money. Business is up and down, but the challenge is the huge loans we have taken from the bank. It gives us sleepless nights. Sometimes, to save money,

32
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

we don't insure our ships, but then we are so tense. At times, we manipulate those in our business to make a little extra money. All this is an exciting game and when we meet with friends over a drink, we say, "cheers" to each other's achievement. But when the evening ends and we go to bed, we can't sleep. We need to take a tranquilizer to overcome the stress." Of what use is such pleasure, if it can't give true peace and joy?

Greed can lead us to misery

Man is a slave of his own greed and his own desire for more makes him miserable. Man is not able to say 'enough'. In fact, he doesn't know how much is enough because he lives in a bottomless well. He is never content or satisfied.

Kirpal had several businesses around the globe, while he himself stayed in Hong Kong. He was like a horse that was running after Success every day. Whenever I met him, he would be talking about Success, money, and achievement. He didn't have any other topic to discuss, and he revelled in sharing his Success. Even after crossing 80, he continued his drive to be successful, rich, and famous. To him, that's all

33
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

what mattered. He was a victim of his own greed. Once I asked him, "Why are you running like a horse? You have enough, more than enough! Even your great-grandchildren can't use the wealth you have." He smiled and he referred to a few of his friends and competitors. He said, "I have still not entered the hospitality industry and I intend to open a chain of hotels." He was now 85. Anybody who met him could say he was not Happy. He carried his stress in his eyes and on his forehead. Anybody who met him would feel sad for him, but he didn't realize that he was a slave to his own greed. I reminded him that his end may not be far and he could take nothing along. But even this did not deter his pursuit for Success. Probably, it had become a habit for him.

So Kirpal was successful but was he Happy? His own Success became the foundation for his misery. One could never see a smile on his face though he boasted of being very successful and Happy.

Success can actually create unhappiness

While we all want Happiness and we misunderstand that Success will give us Happiness, we don't realize that Success can actually make us unhappy.

34
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

Chandru was so unhappy because he was rich. Every morning he would wake up worrying about his stocks. Even before he brushed his teeth and washed his face, he would check his e-mails and make calls. He was 75-years-old and was busy trying to protect his wealth. This was his Success.

His wife was a simple, God-fearing woman. She did not aspire for any wealth and lived a simple, blissful, spiritual life. She used to cry. Her only regret was that her husband's Success was making him miserable. All he spoke about was his money and his investments. He was brainwashed and thought that nothing else mattered. She tried to explain to him that they could not even take a penny with them. She tried to take her husband to some spiritual discourses. Even if he went there, he was not willing to listen to anything. He would only talk of his millions.

What a pity that Success can actually make one so miserable! And the worst part is this, these so-called millionaires and billionaires do not realize that they are truly bankrupt! They may have all the money in the world, but they have no Happiness in their heart!

One day on a busy street, a man of wisdom asked a billionaire,

35
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

"Look outside the window." They saw a man pulling a cow by a rope. "Who is the slave?" asked the sage. The millionaire answered, "Of course, the cow." The saint laughed. He asked somebody to unleash the cow and suddenly, the cow started running and its caretaker was running behind it. Now asked the learned man, "Who is the slave?" The businessman realized what the sage was trying to say. All along, he had thought that he was the master of his riches, but in reality, he was running behind his wealth and was a slave to it, though it seemed otherwise. He decided to shut shop and pursue true Happiness.

The merry-go-round called Success

Success is a merry-go-round. No doubt we pass pleasure, but soon there will be pain. There will be sunshine just as there will be rain. In every Success, there will be loss and gain, but we must remind ourselves, again and again, that Success is not Happiness. Success is Success and being successful is a great feeling, but eventually, it doesn't bring us eternal Happiness and tranquillity. In fact, being on this merry-go-round, finally makes us lose our peace and live a life of stress, worry, and fear.

36
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

Is Success really that bad?

After reading this far, one may start thinking that Success is a curse. This is not so. There is nothing wrong with achieving noteworthy Success. But human psychology is such that we get trapped in the whirlpool of Success.

Of course, achieving Success causes pleasure and Happiness. Then why does it seem to be a cause of misery? Success becomes like a drug and because we are addicted to it, we become miserable. We must view Success with the right perspective and realize that it may give us pleasure, but it can never give us eternal Happiness. While there is nothing wrong in succeeding and enjoying the rewards of Success, we must beware the trap that we may fall into, a trap that will make us sink so deep into Desire, Passion, Stress, Worry, and Fear, creating Anxiety for the rest of our life. Success is Success. Success is not Happiness.

37
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

  "

  "

38
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 4

SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS

  * Success fools us into believing that Success is Happiness!

  * Success makes us feel great. It creates euphoria and excitement, but cannot give us the peace and bliss that true Happiness brings.

  * Success creates pleasures, but not eternal Happiness. It leaves us craving for more.

  * Greed and desire for Success can make us miserable.

  * Therefore, Success is a merry-go-round – there will be pleasure and there will also be pain, but eventually, we will not be joyous and peaceful.

  * It is a myth to believe that Success is Happiness. The Truth is that Success may give momentary pleasure, but in the end, the passion for Success can make us truly miserable.

  * There is nothing wrong in achieving noteworthy Success, but we must not get addicted to it.

  * We should view Success in the right perspective and realize that Success is Success, Success is not Happiness.

39

05

WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

40
    WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

Happiness is a state of being Happy. One look at a person and you can make out whether they are Happy or not. The smile on their face and the enthusiasm in the aura they carry, express their state of Happiness.

Happiness is a state of being

Those who think that Happiness is a destination are mistaken. Happiness is the journey itself. Thus, the dictionary defines Happiness as a state of being Happy. You can't have Happiness. It is not something to possess. You can't go to Happiness, it is not a place. You can't be with Happiness, it is not a person. You can't buy Happiness, it is not a product. You can't achieve Happiness, it is not a transaction. You can only be Happy. It is a state of being.

Different things make different people Happy

What makes me Happy need not make you Happy. In Switzerland, some people rush into a compartment in the train which is a no-talk zone. You are not allowed to talk! They feel blissful and peaceful. In that very train, there are people who run out of that same compartment because they feel miserable as they cannot talk.

41
    WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

This is not difficult to understand. When I travel to the mountains and retreat in bliss, I have companions who find it so boring. They would be Happy dancing in a discotheque.

Different things make different people Happy and this changes as time changes. What makes us Happy as kids doesn't make us Happy as we grow up. Thus Happiness differs for men and boys, depending on the choice of their toys. As men grow up, again their preference changes. Such is Happiness! What gives Happiness to Americans may not give Happiness to the Chinese just as the Happiness triggers of men are different from women. So, they say, men are from Mars and women are from Venus. Men express their Happiness in physical terms, while women more often in emotional terms.

The value of a smile is priceless

While different things make different people Happy, the one thing that appears on all Happy people is a smile. We human beings are designed in such a way, that when we are Happy, we tend to smile. It is very difficult to find miserable people smiling.

42
    WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

A smile has no price tag. Can you go to a supermarket and buy a smile? If your heart is broken, even your favourite food will not bring a smile to your face. Thus, a smile is priceless. It is magical because it costs nothing, but if you give it to somebody, it can make them smile in return. Thus, we carry this gift of a smile that can make others Happy. But look around you. Do you find people smiling? People are so engrossed on their mobile phones or their laptops or running to finish their tasks that they have no time to smile.

I know of people who do not have much money in the bank, but they are smile-millionaires. They always smile and are happier than many who are wealthier than them in material terms.

Who can truly laugh?

Laughter is a tonic. Any doctor will tell you how important it is to laugh. It boosts the immune system. Laughter decreases stress hormones and it strengthens cells that increase our immunity. Laughter creates antibodies that can fight infections in the body. Laughter improves our resistance to diseases. Science has proved that laughter

43
    WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

triggers the release of endorphins, chemicals known to give our body a 'feel good' factor. Therefore, laughter is the best medicine for stress, worry, and tension.

But can everyone laugh? Only Happy people laugh. Miserable people don't know how to laugh and they just can't do it. Because people don't realize that laughter increases serotonin in the brain and it replenishes the lungs, relaxing our muscles, thus being healthy for the heart, they don't give importance to it.

How worry and anxiety can kill Joy

Instead of smiling and laughing, people unnecessarily worry and live with stress and tension. Typical human beings live like pendulums - they swing into the past and live with regrets. They nurse, curse, and rehearse their hurts, although they can do nothing about it. The past is gone. It can't be changed. Still, people live in the past, with stress and anxiety.

The pendulum of their life then swings to the future. They live with FEAR. It is nothing but False Expectations Appearing Real. They confuse their imaginary fears to be

44
    WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

real dangers and worry endlessly. What does this swinging like a pendulum do? It steals our Happiness and robs our smile. This problem of worry, stress, and anxiety seems to be one of the worlds biggest medical hazards and it has a simple remedy – to smile, laugh and be Happy!

What is true Happiness?

People are unable to be truly Happy because they do not know what true Happiness is. They confuse pleasure to be Happiness, just as they think money or wealth is directly proportionate to being Happy. This is a myth. Happiness is an emotion that is not directly connected to money or to achievement. Those who are in the pursuit of Happiness, evolve and learn the true meaning of Happiness. They don't let greed overtake their need, they are not constantly setting goals or creating a destination called Happiness. They live every moment with joy, living in the NOW, moment by moment, being Happy and making other people Happy. Such people are rare, but they have discovered the true meaning of Happiness. They have learned the secret

45
    WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

that Happiness is a journey, not a destination. Such a simple thing called Happiness, but it is the most difficult thing to understand. Let us try to discover the 3 peaks of Happiness.

 "

  "

46
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 5

WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

  * Happiness is a state of being Happy, which is expressed by a smile on the face or the enthusiasm or aura of peace one carries.

  * Happiness is not a destination, it is the journey itself.

  * Different things make different people Happy and this changes as time changes.

  * When we are Happy, we smile. A smile is a precious gift that can make others Happy.

  * Laughter is the best medicine for stress, worry, and tension and only Happy people can laugh.

  * Worry, anxiety, and stress can kill joy and steal our smile.

  * We often confuse pleasure to be Happiness, just as we think money and wealth are directly proportionate to being Happy. This is a myth.

  * True Happiness is to live every moment with joy, living in the NOW, not shuttling to the past with regret and the future with fear. It is being peaceful and blissful NOW!

47

06

THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

48
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

As I achieved Success after Success and enjoyed my achievements, I discovered something very strange. I realized that Success created a lot of excitement, but it was not really making me Happy. Strange, but true. I was making more money and achieving more goals, but I had reached a plateau of Happiness. Luckily, I discovered a formula of Happiness that made me happier. What was this formula? My new formula was – don't just make money, make a difference.

From the money I earned, I started serving the poor. I used to make food packets and distribute them on the streets to the homeless and the hungry and this gave me tremendous joy. It gave me more Happiness than my Success and achievement. This puzzled me. How is it possible that I could be happier making a difference, rather than making money? I then learned a simple fact

– Happiness doesn't come from making money, it comes from spending it. Most people are doing otherwise.

When I looked at my friends, I found that they were, in some sense, paralyzed in the intoxication of making

49
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

money. They seemed to be imprisoned in the belief that the excitement in making money was actually Happiness. But I could see that they were living miserable lives. They lived with worry, stress, and anxiety. They didn't know the meaning of peace and tranquillity.

After 25 years of making money, in which I spent 10 years making a difference, I shut down my business and transformed my life. The first thing I did was to write a book, "I wanna be Happy". I wanted to share with the world what Happiness truly is. I even published my book, not realizing that I had only reached the second peak of Happiness. Only ten years thereafter, I realized that there was a third and ultimate peak of Happiness. What are these three peaks of Happiness?

Happiness is an evolving journey

Unlike what most people believe, Happiness is a journey, not a destination. We evolve in our Happiness journey, first as we grow from kids to adults and then again as we climb the peak of Happiness. For a poor man, a meal is Happiness, but not for a rich man. He has

50
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

too much food and doesn't know what to do with it. We evolve as human beings depending on so many factors

  * our financial status, our social circumstance, our age, gender, family and many such factors. However, the most important evolution is to grow from Happiness that comes from achievement to a state of being content. This evolution can make one transcend from pleasure to peace, but this is not the end. Our life will still have problems and we will still become miserable as sorrow knocks on our door. These can be transcended when we evolve to the third and ultimate peak.

The first peak of Happiness – Achievement

To a common man, the first peak of Happiness is Achievement, commonly referred to as Success or victory. It is not always in monetary terms, but people generally become Happy with a sense of achievement. Normally, monetary achievement is the primary focus, but there are times when name and fame overtake financial goals. Artists, sportsmen amongst others, count their achievement based on the Success they achieve in their field of endeavour. Still, it is all about Success and

51
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

achievement. To most of humanity, this is the only peak of Happiness they know of. Aspirants of Happiness believe that life starts on a Happiness journey and there is an ultimate peak, a goal or destination called Happiness. They don't even realize that Happiness is not a destination. People on this journey to the first peak of Happiness are so blindly passionate about their Success and achievement, that Happiness becomes synonymous with achievement. They don't realize that Success is not Happiness. In fact, they become ruled by their greed rather than their need. They are pleasure driven individuals and they seem to be on a race to the peak of achievement.

What do such people experience? As already reviewed, man cannot succeed all the time. Individuals experience loss and gain, and joy and pain in their journey to the peak of Achievement. Their life is like a yo-yo, going up and down and they go around in circles passing both Happiness and unhappiness on the way. Every individual who is trying to climb the peak of achievement experiences both valleys and peaks on the terrain of life, on the way to the so-called peak or destination, Happiness.

52
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

A very few, less than 20% of humanity, get out of this race and chase. They overcome their greed and try to be content, fulfilling their need. This minority takes an exit from the first peak of Happiness – Achievement and moves towards the second peak. What is this second peak of Happiness?

The second peak of Happiness– Fulfillment

The second peak of Happiness is Fulfilment. In fact, it is not a peak. It is a plateau, but because we have to climb to it, we refer to it as the second peak. People on this peak live a life of fulfillment that comes from contentment. Normally, such people who have been on the first peak of Achievement have realized that there is no peak called Happiness. One has to transcend from Achievement to Contentment. The first peak of Happiness is an illusion. So instead of trying to climb further, in a mad race for more Success and Happiness, they take an exit to a plateau of peace and joy.

What is this second peak of Happiness known as Fulfilment? After noteworthy Success, those who are fortunate to realize that Happiness is not about

53
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

climbing a peak, but rather being peaceful and blissful, resign to a life of Contentment, being fully satisfied and fulfilled. They learn that Happiness is built on a foundation of peace and tranquillity and they choose to exchange their pleasure for peace. To live a Happy life, they build a connection with the Universal Power as they live with love and laughter, liberated from worldly possessions and from being overly attached to people. To them, freedom is far more valuable than money in the bank. They are inspired by life and they live with joy and laughter, spending time smiling at others and enjoying the journey rather than zooming to a destination. They spend time loving people and living their dreams. Their Happiness comes from making others Happy as they spend their time making a difference rather than just making money. Most important, they focus on a life of positive emotions. They live with faith, hope, enthusiasm, love, confidence, eliminating anger, worry, fear, hate and jealousy amongst others. To them, true Happiness is living with tranquillity and peace.

They live moment by moment, not regretting the past and worrying about the future. Their philosophy is that

54
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

Happiness is the journey. There is no Destination called Happiness.

People on the second peak of Happiness, Fulfilment are far happier as they are in a blissful and peaceful state. Their Happiness is greater than those pursuing the first peak of Happiness. However, they too experience the pain of the body and misery of the mind. They can, sometimes, get a little bored on this peaceful plateau, the second peak of Happiness, Fulfillment. Very few amongst them, less than 1% of humanity, realize that there is a third peak of Happiness, a peak that is beyond the first peak of Happiness, Achievement and the second peak of Happiness, Fulfilment. A peak that knows no misery and sorrow.

The third peak of Happiness – Liberation

The aspirants of Happiness evolve in their Happiness journey after achieving pleasure from achievement and reaching the plateau of peace with contentment and fulfillment. They are Happy and blissfully joyous, but they learn of a peak beyond. They are inspired to go on

55
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

a quest, a search for the third peak where misery and sorrow do not exist. They hear of a peak which liberates one from the pain of the body and misery of the mind. However, not many people pursue this ultimate peak of Happiness. Why? It is because of their own mind. The mind does not want us to transcend and evolve to the third peak because by doing that, the mind itself is destroyed. What is this ultimate Happiness peak?

People like Gautam Buddha, analyzed life and were awakened to the reality. He observed that the world is full of suffering and ultimately, everyone has to grow old, experience disease and decay and finally, die. He advocated that the goal of life was Nirvana or liberation from death and the afterlife. While Buddha, a Hindu prince was enlightened with the Truth, evolving directly from the first peak to the third peak of Happiness, normal mortals would find it easier to go via the second peak. What is Enlightenment about?

On a quest for the third peak, seekers realize that though we have a body, we are not the body and though we seem to have a mind, we are not the mind. It is not very

56
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

difficult to realize this Truth although most of humanity doesn't go on such a quest. The moment we realize that we are not the body, we don't suffer the physical pain of the body, as we detach ourself from it. More importantly, we are liberated from the miseries of the mind by activating our intellect. The intellect is that part of the subtle body which is often misunderstood to be a part of the mind, but it is not. In fact, one has to use the intellect to transcend ME - the Mind and Ego, which are illusions and which stop us from realizing the third and ultimate peak. What is this peak?

The third peak is called Liberation or Enlightenment. It is Liberation from misery and sorrow. It is Enlightenment, the eradicating of the ignorance that we live with, as the light of realization dawns on us. While its spiritual understanding liberates us from an afterlife, one need not subscribe to the spiritual paradigm while arriving at this peak.

The moment we realize the Truth that we are Energy, not the body that we seem to be, we are free from suffering caused by pain in the physical body and the

57
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

misery and sorrow that follows. Even science endorses that the human body which seems to be blood, skin, and bones is, in reality, trillions of energy particles that appear as the gross physical body. We need to realize this Truth.

More important than transcending the pain of the physical body, Liberation or Enlightenment eradicates the misery of the mind, leading us to a blissful life without sorrow. The mind, generally lives with regrets and frustrations of the past, as it experiences fear of the future. It also remains miserable with negative emotions like anger, hate, jealousy, revenge, stress, and anxiety.

All this makes our life so full of misery and sorrow. The realization that we are not the mind leads us to the third peak as we are enlightened with the Truth and are thus liberated from these prisons of misery and sorrow. The third peak transcends the ignorance that we are the body that suffers and the mind that languishes in regrets and fears to a state of Nirvana or everlasting peace and eternal joy.

Those who scale the third peak of Happiness, live a

58
    THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

blissful life of eternal tranquillity and bliss. They realize several Truths about life which makes them by far, the happiest people in the world. Special note should be made that Success does not create this Happiness, but surely their Happiness gives them a feeling of being successful, achieving the ultimate goal of life.

  "

  "

59
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 6

THE 3 PEAKS OF HAPPINESS

  * We evolve in our Happiness journey, as we grow from kids to adults and then again as we aspire for further Happiness.

  * The first peak of Happiness is Achievement or what we refer to as Success or victory. It is mostly about monetary Success, but there are times when name and fame overtake financial goals.

  * To most of humanity, this is the only peak of Happiness that they know of – Achievement. But it is only a peak of momentary pleasure.

  * The second peak – Fulfilment, comes after noteworthy Success to those who are fortunate to realize that Happiness is not about climbing a peak, but rather living a life of Contentment, being fully satisfied and fulfilled.

  * The third peak – Liberation or Enlightenment is a peak of eternal peace and everlasting joy where misery and sorrow don't exist. On this third peak one realizes that we are not the body or mind.

  * The moment we realize the Truth that we are Energy, not the body or mind that we seem to be, we are liberated from pain and sorrow that exists on the first two peaks of Happiness.

60

07

HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

61
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

Happiness is all about being in the NOW. Can we go back to the moment that has gone and be Happy? We very well know that we cannot go back to the past moment. Can we at least go to the next moment and be Happy? Impossible! We can be Happy in the next moment only when it arrives. Therefore, the only possibility of being Happy is being Happy in the present moment, being Happy in the NOW!

Who are the truly Happy people?

If we look around, we can distinctly see two types of people. The first type of people are Happy, they live enjoying the moment, laughing, talking, eating, playing and even working. The other kind of people are miserable – they are angry about what has happened or are worrying about what is going to happen. We can't see a smile on their faces, just as we can see joy on the faces of the Happy ones. Therefore, if we look around, truly Happy people look Happy. We may see many successful people around us, but they need not necessarily be Happy.

62
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

I was at an airport check-in counter when a very rich man was talking to the check-in clerk. "You need to give me my boarding pass," he said. "Sorry", replied the airline executive, "The counter is closed." "You don't seem to know who I am," shouted the man, "I travel every week and I am enrolled as a privileged member with your airlines." He was a rich and successful man. But the check-in executive replied, "I know you Sir, but I am really sorry! The boarding is closed."

The man fumed, screamed and did everything possible to get on the flight, but he couldn't. He was late and the aeroplane doors were closed. I saw him becoming so miserable and unhappy. His ego couldn't accept that though he was such a rich and successful man, his request was turned down. Even as I saw him whining and screaming over a call to his secretary, I noticed that two young men had also missed the same flight. But they were laughing and they were looking at other options to reach their destination. They were not as rich as the screaming man, but to me, they were happier and therefore, wealthier.

Being Happy moment by moment

Happiness is all about the moment, being Happy in this moment. We don't need to be successful every moment

63
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

to live every moment with Joy. But we can choose to be Happy every moment and thus make every moment successful.

People don't realize that Happiness is all about being Happy moment by moment. "The moment" is a gift. That is why it is called "the present". If we let the present moment pass without joy, then we have lost a great opportunity. If we lose the present moment, worrying about the next one, again, we are killing the opportunity of being Happy.

While people are planning and scheming of ways to be Happy, what they don't realize is that unless they enjoy the planning, they will never enjoy the Happiness journey. Unfortunately, they think of Happiness as the destination, while in reality, it is the journey itself, a journey that unfolds, moment by moment.

We swing like a pendulum

Robert was a millionaire and he used to celebrate his Success throwing parties and displaying his wealth. He would serve the best wine in the world, along with lobsters imported from

64
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

Australia. But those who worked with Robert knew that most of his life was miserable, including planning for the parties and buying the wine and lobsters. While the celebrations and the party lasted, everybody seemed to look Happy - Robert too. But in reality, Robert was stressed. Even after the party, his agony used to continue. He used to think, "Why did the hotel charge more? Why was there so much wastage and why was the invitation list not properly planned?" Robert's Happiness was like a pendulum swinging from unhappiness at one end to misery at the other, with some moments of excitement in between.

Many people live life like a pendulum. They only enjoy occasional moments of Happiness. They don't discover a way to be Happy all the time. If only they realized that Happiness happens moment by moment, they would not spend so much time in agony.

Why do we become miserable thinking of the past that is gone?

Harry was a renowned artist in Korea. He had painted some amazing paintings too. He was popular and famous, but alas, he was not Happy. He always complained about how somebody

65
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

had stolen his best painting and how one day, the weather had spoilt his special piece of art. Although he was successful and blessed with talent, there was no smile on his face. He could not let go of the past.

Can you change the past? Nobody can! But we can definitely ruin the present moment thinking of the misery of the past. Unfortunately, many people don't let go of their hurts. They nurse them, curse them and rehearse them. If only they reversed them and started afresh, the past would be soon forgotten. Why let the misery of the past destroy our present Happiness? We should not cling to our miseries as they will only bring agony into our life.

Why do we become anxious of a future not yet born?

David was trying to be part of the national cricket team. He woke up every morning before sunrise and practised. He was good at his game. But he failed to make it to the final team. David's dad realized that David failed because he was very anxious. His fear destroyed both his self-confidence and his skill. He was so unhappy practising because he was worrying all the time. His fear of rejection actually made him lose. When his dad started practising with him, he made David

66
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

replace his fear with faith and made each practice session very exciting. He taught David not to worry about the result, but rather to focus on the game. David was able to practise effectively and made it to the team in the next selection.

When we are anxious about the future, not only do we fail, but we destroy every moment of Happiness on the way. In our anxiety to achieve a final moment of Happiness, we lose hundreds of moments in fear and worry.

Happiness is all about NOW

Isn't it true that Happiness is about NOW? Whether we are enjoying a beautiful sunrise or sunset, or an amazing meal at our favourite restaurant, or spending time with friends that make us laugh, Happiness is about NOW. Even if we are watching a video of the past, it is about being Happy NOW. We can't go back to experience that moment when it happened, but we can smile now because of a pleasant memory, just as we can be miserable thinking of an unpleasant one. Happiness is in the NOW. We can become Happy planning for our 50th birthday which is going to happen next year, but we can't go to that day – it's just not possible. Either we can

67
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

have fun now planning for it, or we can be miserable worrying about the bills we will have to pay next year.

Therefore, Happiness is an art, just as it is a skill. An art of enjoying the present moment and skill of being in the NOW. Those who are unable to be conscious of the present, or don't know how to smile every moment that passes, deprive themselves of the richest wealth – Happiness.

We don't need Success every moment to be Happy

Do we need Success every moment to smile? Of course we don't! It is a myth to believe that we need Success to be Happy. Yes, it's great to be an achiever, who says it is not? But to believe that only achievers are Happy people, is a lie. We don't need proof of this. We can see for ourself that Happiness can come without Success. If we learn to be joyous in every moment as it passes, realizing the secret of being Happy in the NOW, we can still work on our Success, but give more priority to our Happiness.

68
    HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

         "

 "

69
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 7

HAPPINESS IS IN THE NOW!

  * Happiness is all about being in the NOW.

  * We don't need to be successful every moment to live every moment with Joy. But we can choose to be Happy every moment and thus make every moment successful.

  * If we let the present moment pass without joy, then we have failed.

  * Many people live life like a pendulum. They swing from the past to the future, and only enjoy occasional moments of Happiness. They have not discovered a way to be Happy all the time.

  * We cannot change the past. But we can definitely ruin the present moment thinking of the misery of the past.

  * When we are anxious about the future, we destroy the present moment of Happiness.

  * We must develop the art of enjoying the present moment and the skill of being in the NOW.

  * Those who are unable to be conscious of the present, or don't know how to smile every moment that passes deprive themselves of the richest wealth – Happiness.

70

08

HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

71
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

If the ultimate objective of Success is Happiness, then what is Happiness? If the only purpose of achieving Success is to be Happy, then isn't Happiness Success itself? Somehow, we live in an illusory world and because we don't realize the Truth, we chase a myth. If one remains Happy, then why does one have to go in search of Success?

If you are Happy, you don't need Success

The whole world is chasing Success and achievement because they want to be Happy. In this pursuit of joy, we try to make money, achieve goals, fall in love, travel the world and become a star. When we analyze why we do all this, we realize that the ultimate goal is to be Happy. But if we are already Happy, then we can be in that state of peace and joy without going on a mad chase to become an ace. That's why it is called a rat race, because in the end, even if we win, we are only a rat seeking more cheese, unhappy and discontent. But instead, if we are blissful and peaceful, then we are already successful.

Once, a wealthy businessman was passing by a river. He was surprised to see a fisherman sitting beside his boat, playing

72
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

with a small child. "Why aren't you out fishing?" asked the businessman.

"Because I caught enough fish for one day," replied the fisherman. "Why don't you catch some more?" enquired the businessman.

"What would I do with them?" questioned the fisherman with a smile.

"You could earn more money," said the businessman. "Then with that extra money, you could buy a bigger boat, go into deeper waters, and catch more fish. Then you would make enough money to buy nylon nets. With the nets, you could catch even more fish and make more money. With that money, you could own two boats or may be three boats. Eventually, you could have a whole fleet of boats and be rich like me," mentored the businessman.

"Then what would I do?" asked the fisherman.

"Then," said the businessman, "you could really enjoy life."

The fisherman looked at the businessman with a puzzled expression on his face and asked, "What do you think I am doing now?" The businessman was speechless.

73
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

We go through our entire life trying to become successful and Happy rather than just being Happy. We don't need to waste our time and energy doing so many things that eventually get us so-called Happiness and will return us to a state in which we can be peaceful. The fisherman was already Happy. He didn't want to spend his entire life like the rich businessman. He found his Happiness effortlessly and he was far more peaceful and blissful.

Success seems to be the cause and Happiness the effect

It seems that Success is the cause and Happiness the effect, just like mud is the cause and the mud pot and mud statue are the effects. If there was no mud, these objects could not appear. Gold is the cause. The ring, chain and the bangle are effects. If there is no gold, the ornaments would disappear. So also, we believe Success is the cause and Happiness the effect. We believe we need Success to be Happy, but in reality, we don't. Success is not the cause of Happiness. Happiness is independent of Success. We must realize this Truth.

Success causes us to be more sad, than glad

We think that Success makes us glad. Of course, it does! But

74
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

the question is – Does it make us glad all the time? Anybody in this world who wants to succeed, has to ultimately fail. Moreover, every successful person knows that as you drive on the highway of Success, you will pass several milestones of failures. This is a part of the Success journey. Therefore, in the pursuit of Success, we experience both achievement and failure, joy and sorrow.

The wise ones who analyze, point out something ironical. In the beginning, we are already Happy – we do not have Success. But in the end, after so much struggle and toil, we have a bouquet of roses and thorns. Our life bucket is filled with Success and failures, there is joy and sorrow. Unnecessarily, we experience so much misery. Why did we need to pick up all the worry, stress and anxiety, when in the first place we started with so much bliss? In the final analysis, Success causes a lot of pleasure, name, and fame, but it also causes so much misery and pain that it robs our peace of mind.

Peace is the foundation of Happiness

Truly Happy people will vouch for this. Where there is no peace, there can be no Happiness and we don't need Success to be peaceful. In fact, the struggle for Success creates turmoil. It then makes us imagine that we are

75
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Happy, as it takes us up the peak of achievement. No sooner do we enjoy the glory than we slip down into a valley of gloom and misery.

Ask any successful person and they will admit that Success in fact, steals our peace of mind, as it creates so much stress and pressure. A stressful mind is not peaceful and a mind that is not peaceful is not blissful. Success is Happiness is a paradox because Success ultimately creates unhappiness. Success eventually steals our peace and makes us unhappy. If we want true Happiness, we must build our life on a foundation of peace not Success.

We can be Happy all the time

While people may think it is impossible to be Happy all the time, the Truth is we can. Happiness is not a complicated matter. We unnecessarily complicate it. Instead of enjoying the blowing of the breeze, the swaying of the trees and the waves in the seas, we want to be a millionaire to be Happy. There may be excitement in making a million, but it creates more stress than joy. Further, becoming a millionaire will make us experience Happiness and unhappiness. It requires us to experience

76
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

both positive and negative circumstances that lead us to become a millionaire. Surely, that journey cannot make us Happy all the time.

Compare this to somebody whose life is content and fulfilled. They have no desires or cravings. They have no greed and they have fulfilled their need. Their life is full of peace and Happiness. Of course, those who climb the second peak of Happiness, fulfillment, learn to be Happy and follow the principles of fulfillment. There is no doubt that they are Happy all the time. This is guaranteed if they live their life moment by moment, peacefully and blissfully, without jumping into the rat race of the world. After all, it doesn't take too much to be Happy, and if we are committed to it, we can be Happy no matter what.

We can't be Successful all the time

While we can be Happy all the time, we can't be successful all the time. This statement is true and doesn't have to be proved. Success is a journey of several peaks and we always have to come down to a valley to go to the next peak. While we cannot be successful all the time, we can be Happy all the time. Therefore, trying to use

77
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Success as an instrument to create Happiness is the wrong idea. We can't! Even the most successful people in the world will admit that they go through experiences of failure which cause so much stress and anxiety. The journey of Success that starts with desires, brings in disappointments and leads to victory, may ultimately take us to Success but not without a definite experience of several failures - each failure, each heartbreak, each disappointment, not sparing us sorrow and misery.

Further, who will deny that Success and stress are synonymous? Every state of Success starting from desire, and ending with protecting our Success carries so much stress, worry, and fear, that the very Success that was meant to make us Happy, unfortunately, makes us unhappy.

Choose to be Happy, not Successful!

Therefore, what should we choose? Would we like to be successful, experiencing both joy and sorrow or would we like to be blissful and peaceful without the need to succeed?

78
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

At this point, it should be clear that it does not mean that a person should sit under a tree and do nothing. Every living being has to act, and there is nothing wrong in achieving noteworthy Success. It is perfectly OK to achieve excellence in all we do, but living passionately to win and being obsessed to succeed all the time is a recipe for misery and stress.

Therefore, it is up to us to make a choice. We can choose to be successful, living like a yo-yo that goes up and then down, swinging from Happiness to unhappiness or we can live a life of contentment and fulfillment, doing our best and accepting life as it comes as we float like a cloud in the sky, in surrender and acceptance, peaceful and blissful. The choice is ours!

79
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

We can't be Successful all the time.

But we can be Peaceful all the time.

Miserable Unhappy

When we have no Desires, there are no Disappointments.

We live a Peaceful life.

Peace       Peace

80
    HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

  "

 "

81
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 8

HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

  * If the only purpose of achieving Success is to be Happy, then Happiness is Success itself. If we are Happy, we don't need Success.

  * Success makes us glad. But, does it make us glad all the time?

  * Every successful person will pass failures on the highway called Success.

  * Success steals our peace of mind as it creates pressure and stress. Where there is no peace, there can be no Happiness.

  * While we cannot be successful all the time, we can be peaceful and Happy all the time.

  * The choice is ours - to be successful, swinging from Happiness to unhappiness or being peaceful and blissful moment by moment.

82

09

SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS... HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

83
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

If one introspects and contemplates what Success is, we will realize that Success is not Happiness. This realization should be the biggest shock of our lives. We always thought that we must be successful because that will make us Happy. But now, we know that we don't need Success to be Happy. Then why waste our entire life chasing Success?

Shocking, isn't it?

People go to school to acquire skills and go to university to become a master in a subject that will make them successful only to be Happy. But this entire effort has no assurance of Happiness. Their achievement may give them temporary pleasure but may not ensure everlasting joy. They probably live with stress and anxiety. They may spend their entire life pursuing something which will not get them what they ultimately want.

Who will believe that Success doesn't create Happiness?

At the outset, if we tell somebody that Success is not

Happiness, they will scoff at us. Of course, Success is

Happiness. Everybody succeeds because they want

84
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Happiness. We may write a book because that gives us Happiness. We try to make money because that gives us joy. The singer sings for the Grammy because that creates bliss for the singer, just as the politician sacrifices his entire life to win the election. But one thing is clear, everybody is doing this to be Happy, not miserable. However, if Success is not going to create everlasting joy, then this is a dichotomy in our thinking.

How can Success create misery?

This statement is one of the strangest statements that hit me as I was doing an inquiry to realize the Truth. It suddenly dawned upon me that we all seek to be successful and we all want to be achievers because we believe that this will create joy and Happiness. Little do we realize that every Success carries with it stress and worry and the possibility, if not the probability of disappointment, defeat, and misery, that is born out of unfulfilled desires.

How can Happiness be Success?

We were always seeking Success because we believed

85
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

that Success would give us Happiness. But we realized that this is not true. Success makes us glad but we also become sad.

Now to believe that Happiness is Success is actually a challenge. Why? We believe that joy and Happiness is built on a foundation of peace and has nothing to do with Success. But all along, we were trying to achieve Success to give us Happiness, when in reality Success doesn't promise just Happiness, but rather a combination of both joy and sorrow. Happiness by itself is joy and peace and we don't need Success to be in that state. If we can just be in that state of Happiness, then we are already Successful, aren't we? This is because we have achieved the objective of Success. Therefore, Happiness is Success.

Think about it. We want to be successful because we believe that we will be blissful. The purpose of Success is Happiness. But if Success doesn't give Happiness, then Success is not Happiness. On the other hand, by being Happy we attain that state of peace and bliss, then haven't we achieved Success? Therefore, being Happy is being Successful. Being Successful is not being Happy.

86
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Our ignorance makes us believe that Success is Happiness

Man lives in ignorance. There are several Truths that man doesn't realize, and thus man suffers. Man thinks he is the body and suffers physical pain. Man thinks he is the mind, and with it, he worries and wanders. He swings from the past to the future, living with anxiety and fear. Why? Because he is ignorant. The moment man realizes that he is not the ego, mind or body, he is liberated from misery and pain.

Likewise, man lives in ignorance believing that Success is Happiness. He spends his entire life trying to be successful, but he experiences a combination of joy and sorrow as he goes through loss and gain, in a life that has sunshine and rain. But man is blind. He doesn't want to accept that Success is not Happiness. He still wants to succeed to be Happy. He can choose "to be" in a state of peace and joy, without madly running after Success. But he doesn't! Like a mad man, he chases his achievements, hoping that they will give him eternal peace and bliss. But they don't. Man lives and dies in this ignorance.

87
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Recently, a man on his death bed in a hospital said, "If only I had spent my life being Happy rather than pursuing Success, I would have died a happier man."

Another old lady told me, "If I had my life to live over, I would stop to watch more sunsets, climb more mountains, play more tennis. I would spend more time with the people I love and playing the piano which gives me joy. If only I had my life to live all over again, I would spend my time doing the things that make me Happy, not just succeeding in my career making money. But unfortunately, I can't! My life is nearly over."

Realize the Truth

Isn't it time to stop and to realize the Truth. Should we zoom from womb to tomb, chasing Success or should we live moment by moment in peace, bliss, and joy? Can we carry our Success with us after death? Don't we know we come empty handed and we go empty-handed?

Some people want to earn money for their children and grandchildren. Ask yourself – do you know the name of

88
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

the great grandfather of your great grandfather? Chances are you don't. Does it make sense that we spend our entire life acquiring Success for people who won't even know our name? Shouldn't we rather spend our lives being Happy, and doing what makes us Happy.

Seek to be Happy, not Successful

This is the advice from the sages and the wise men of this world. We should rather choose to be Happy than successful. Happiness is guaranteed Success, but Success doesn't guarantee Happiness. Somehow, a cosmic illusion hijacks our intellect and through its power, holds us at gunpoint, making us seek Success and achievement. It casts a shadow of ignorance on us, such that something as simple as this escapes our attention. We can be Happy without being successful, but rather, we choose to be successful and miss being Happy. Is that what we want? Of course not! We want to be Happy. Then why are we chasing something that doesn't promise Happiness? Why are we not being Happy instead, which is the very objective of Success? Shouldn't we switch over? Instead of making Success our goal, should we not make

89
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Happiness the goal. And it's not so difficult to be Happy if we realize that by living joyously moment by moment, we can be Happy. Isn't it time to switch over?

In Success we expect. In Happiness we accept

Why is it that Happiness is guaranteed Success, but Success is not guaranteed Happiness? This is because when we want Success, we expect more and more. Of course, we try our best. We use the best equipment and put in our best efforts. But sometimes, there is an unknown factor that controls the results of our actions. Our expectations are not fulfilled. We become miserable and unhappy.

But in being Happy, we don't expect, we accept. We surrender to the divine will. Our life is not controlled by desires and cravings. Therefore, there are no disappointments, no misery, and sorrow. We live in a state of peace, bliss, and joy. This difference of accepting rather than expecting is what makes Happiness guarantee Success. This constant expectation in Success makes Success a failure in acquiring Happiness that we seek out of Success in the very first place.

90
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Happiness is like a shadow, don't chase it

Have you ever observed a shadow? The more we go towards it, the more it runs away. Such is Happiness. The more we chase Happiness, the more elusive it is. What does this tell us? Can we catch our shadow? We can't! So also, we can't catch Happiness. We can't achieve Happiness. But just like we can be with our shadow and it is with us all the time, if we remain still, it doesn't run away, so is also true of Happiness. If we are still and peaceful, Happiness remains with us. But if we go behind it, it is an unending chase. Therefore, when we seek Success and we are in a chase, we can never be Happy. Life is not about chasing Happiness. Success is about being Happy.

The richest king was unhappy

In ancient India, there was a king who was a very powerful, successful, and a wealthy conqueror. He had everything a king could want – power, money, respect, palaces, gold, wine, women, children and a kingdom that was running effectively without any problem. Still, he was unhappy. He didn't know why, but he was not Happy. He tried to speak to several sages and wise men on how he could be Happy, but he couldn't find an answer. Ultimately, one advisor told him, "It's very easy.

91
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

You can become Happy. Just wear a Happy man's shirt - the shirt of a man who has had no sorrow and no pain."

The king's guards went across the kingdom beating their drums and making appropriate announcements, searching for the Happy man's shirt. The king was surprised that in his entire kingdom he could not find a single man who was devoid of suffering and misery. He asked his guards to go to the neighbouring kingdom and search, but they failed until finally, they found one man in the forest who was supposed to have no misery. They requested him to come to the king. But he refused. Then they tried to buy his shirt as the king had instructed them to pay any amount for the Happy man's shirt. Surprisingly, this man had only 2 shirts and he refused to give it to them. Though they tempted him with a lot of money and jewels, he could not be bought. He was blissful and content.

Finally, the king visited this man and asked him what his secret of Happiness was. He explained to the king, "I am fully content and satisfied. I seek nothing – that is my secret. You are seeking something all the time. This time, you are seeking Happiness, that is why you are unhappy." This constant desire of achieving something is the root cause of unhappiness. Therefore, Success can never be Happiness.

92
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Happiness is Success!

After going through an entire analysis of Success and Happiness, what do you think? Is Success Happiness or is Happiness Success? Would you still spend the rest of your life pursuing Success that may give you a sense of achievement, but will not give you peace and bliss, or would you rather seek to be Happy, living in tranquillity and eternal joy? What would you choose?

Our life is a gift and lasts just for a few decades. The goal of life is to be Happy, not successful. Unfortunately, because we live believing the myth that Success is Happiness, we spend our entire life chasing Success. We live and die like the musk deer. In the Himalayas, this deer is seen roaming in pursuit of the musk fragrance. This fragrance actually comes from the musk that is inside its own navel. But the musk deer is ignorant of this fact. The fragrance inspires it to look for the musk all through its life till eventually, it falls from the dangerously high cliffs and dies. The hunters then tear open the pouch in the navel and retrieve the exclusive musk.

93
    SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Such is our life. Happiness is within us. We can enjoy eternal peace and everlasting joy, realizing the Truth but we keep seeking Happiness outside when it lies within us. We search for external Success when the reward of such Success, 'Peace and Joy' lies within us, in our heart and Soul. Isn't it time to realize the Truth?

  "

  "

94
    SUMMARY - CHAPTER 9

SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

  * When we realize that Happiness itself is peace and joy that we are seeking out of Success and that we can rather be happier just being Happy, than seeking Success, we realize that Happiness is Success.

  * Man lives in ignorance believing that Success is Happiness. He spends his entire life trying to be successful, but he experiences a combination of joy and sorrow

  * Happiness is guaranteed Success, but Success doesn't guarantee Happiness.

  * Success creates expectations that make us unhappy. But in being Happy, we don't expect, we accept.

  * Happiness is like a shadow, the more we go towards it, the more it runs away. The more we chase Happiness, by chasing Success, the more elusive it becomes.

  * We keep seeking Happiness outside when it lies within us. We search for external Success when the reward of such Success, 'Peace and Joy' lies within us, in our heart and Soul.

  * Success is not Happiness... Happiness is Success. We must not seek to be successful to be Happy. If we are Happy, we are successful.

95

AFTERWORD

MY HAPPINESS JOURNEY

96
    AFTERWORD

My own life journey is a testimony of the Truth – Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success. It is not just my journey, but the journey of several successful people and Happy people that I have met along the way that led to this realization.

I too was passionate about Success

For 25 years, from when I was 16 till I turned 40, my life was a passionate pursuit of Success and achievement. When I started at 16, I purchased a car. I was still in school and I bought the car from the money that I had earned through an advertising agency that I had started. My first Success gave me tremendous joy. From there on, there was no looking back. I went from peak to peak, one Success to another and it seemed whatever I touched turned to gold. We started India's first megastore and a chain of retail stores. We were super successful with the brands KidsKemp, Big KidsKemp, Toys Kemp and Kemp Fort. I made millions, was very successful and was lost in a fog of achievement and Happiness.

When I look back at my Success, I had tons of it and there was so much excitement and joy, but I cannot find

97
    AFTERWORD

a single achievement that didn't create misery, sorrow, and pain. No doubt, at that point of time, I was so caught up in that euphoria of Success, that I didn't realize it was like a tornado, a hurricane that was so powerful that it caused devastation in my heart and Soul. Today as I look back upon my Success, I wonder why I did so many unfair and unethical things just to achieve something for my self-gratification. At that time, I was blind and oblivious to the pain that Success was creating and it seemed like I was addicted to this drug called Success.

In that mad passion to be Happy, I made so much name and fame, made a lot of money, but was I truly Happy? My life was a roller coaster that zoomed with the excitement of pleasure and then plunged into the stress and worry I experienced.

I was Successful and Happy, but...

While I was successful, and made a lot of money and seemed Happy, there was something missing. The struggle for Success and a lack of peace of mind, made

98
    AFTERWORD

me do things that were offbeat and away from my achievement. To me, Success, achievement, and money were important, but they were not my priority. My Success was giving me a lot of pleasure, but there was no peace and thus, I was still craving for true Happiness, although I was very successful. I realized that true Happiness came to me from a different source.

What gave me True Happiness

As I had made a lot of money in my Success journey, I started serving the poor. I used to go out in the night and distribute food packets to the homeless and the poor on the streets. On cold winter nights, I would take blankets and cover those lying on the pavement. This gave me tremendous joy and fulfillment, far more than what my Success and money gave me. Of course, making money made me Happy, but making a difference to the poor and needy gave me peace and joy that surpassed the Happiness from achievement.

From making money to making a difference

I transformed my life. I shut down my business at 40

99
    AFTERWORD

and started doing H.I.S. work – Humanitarian, Inspirational and Spiritual work. Making a difference gave me greater Happiness than making money did. I wrote my first book – "I wanna be Happy", as I inspired people to do what they love and love what they do. We built charitable homes and medical centres to reach out to the poorest of the poorest. We picked people who were suffering on the streets, helped cure them and put them back on their feet. Every selfless action, created peace, joy, and bliss. I realized Happiness comes from spending money, not just making it. But most people do otherwise. We earn and earn only for others to burn what we earn. Should we not rather spend before our end and put a smile on people's face, living with grace? I felt like I was the happiest man in the world. I learned something very profound. The richest man is not the happiest man, the happiest man is the richest man.

As I evolved from a life of achievement to a life of fulfillment, I realized that achievement creates Success, but this is just the first peak of Happiness. Happiness on this peak is very momentary and is based on pleasure. There is no peace. My evolution to the second peak was

100
    AFTERWORD

because I was seeking peace and I found that it didn't come from Success. True Happiness is built on a foundation of peace. Where there is no peace, there can be no Happiness. The Happiness that Success provided, was based on pleasure and had no foundation of peace.

Therefore, I shut down my business, stopped making money and transformed my life. Earlier, people knew me as one of the most successful entrepreneurs in the country, but that no longer mattered to me. I wanted to be blissful and peaceful, not just successful. I discovered the second peak of Happiness, Fulfilment, that was based on being fully content and satisfied and my life journey evolved just as my Happiness did, creating everlasting joy and eternal peace.

The second peak was a plateau

As I transformed my life from achievement to contentment and fulfillment, I thought I had reached the second and final peak of Happiness. No doubt, my life was full of bliss, joy, fun, laughter, and enthusiasm. But somehow, there was something missing.

101
    AFTERWORD

I travelled to a hundred new countries to discover the beautiful world that God has made and I was so content, so fulfilled, making a difference each day and spending the money I had earned on a worthy cause. I used to share my fulfillment journey with my spiritual master, showing him both the work we were doing and the travel pictures of Antarctica and the penguins; Iceland and the waterfalls.

My mentor and Guru, Dada J. P. Vaswani provoked me to go on a quest and a search for something beyond this plateau called Fulfilment. He told me that I had achieved all the pleasure through achievement and all the peace through fulfillment, but the ultimate goal was to realize our true purpose. He inspired me to go on a quest, a search. I am truly grateful to him for my Realization.

My search for a purpose

Although my life was full of joy, bliss, and peace, there was a slight sense of boredom that came from not having a purpose and proper meaning to life. I was living a life of tremendous Happiness, with pleasure

102
    AFTERWORD

and peace, but my life lacked meaning and purpose. Would I just continue doing humanitarian, inspirational and spiritual work, traveling around the world and die? Who am I and what is my purpose on earth? These and many such questions led me on a quest. Little did I know that I would reach the next peak of Happiness.

How I discovered the third peak of Happiness

I went into the mountains with a few questions about birth and death; about God and enlightenment and about the Soul and rebirth. I wanted to find out the true purpose of life. Yes, after spending a few years, retreating in the mountains, I realized some Truths that transformed my life completely.

I realized that we are not this body, although we have a body. Although we seem to have a mind, we are not the mind. We are the Divine Soul, the Life Energy that gives breath and without which there is death.

I realized that I was not Ravi V. Melwani – that was just my name. I was the Soul or Atman in Ravi and thus I changed my name to AiR. This realization created a

103
    AFTERWORD

metamorphosis in my life, a second and permanent transformation. It also made me realize, the third and ultimate peak of Happiness, a peak of Happiness that has nothing beyond. I called the third peak Liberation or Enlightenment.

Eternal peace, joy, and bliss

My quest made me realize the third and ultimate peak of Happiness, Liberation or Enlightenment. The realization of the Truth of who we are liberates us from all misery and sorrow. When we realize we are not the body, we distance ourselves from the physical pain experienced by the body. When we realize that we are not the mind, we are liberated from all the miseries that the mind experiences – anger, fear, worry, jealousy, and hate. Those who don't realize this may experience all the peace and joy that comes from contentment and fulfillment, but they still experience the misery of body and mind. Realization of the Truth liberates one from this sorrow and gives one everlasting peace and eternal joy, unknown to common man. Although less than 1% of humanity pursues the third peak and out of that,

104
    AFTERWORD

only a small fraction actually realizes the Truth - this is the ultimate peak of Happiness.

After the third peak, then what...

I have been fortunate to spend 25 years being Happy with Achievement, where I experienced the yo-yo of winning and losing, the ups and downs, the peaks and valleys of being glad and being sad. Thereafter, I made the decision to exit the world of Achievement, and I was lucky to have found the second peak, Fulfilment, where I lived in peace for about 8 years – on a plateau of bliss and joy. I am also so grateful that I realized the third and ultimate peak of Happiness, Liberation or Enlightenment. I was blessed with the realization of the Truth. I was enlightened to know who I truly was and what my purpose is.

All this has made me not just the happiest man on earth, which I already was, but it has eliminated all sorrow, misery, and agony from my life. I live a fearless life, with no regrets of the past, or worries of the future. I have transcended anger, hate, jealousy and revenge and all the other negative emotions that create stress, misery,

105
    AFTERWORD

and anxiety. I live a life of everlasting joy and eternal peace.

Even today, as I cross my 52nd year and am young and capable enough to start a big business, I refuse all such offers and suggestions because I have left that peak of Success and achievement far behind. I have taken off from the plateau of fulfillment, the second peak into the skies of liberation. I live like a free bird, flying in the sky, without any desire or expectation, living in surrender and acceptance of the Cosmic Divine Will. I live life moment by moment, each moment so blissful and peaceful that I feel completely liberated from the cosmic illusion of this world.

While I live a life of Yoga, in union with the Divine, I still can't escape from action. While my life is all about devotion and meditation, I spend hours learning and on educating myself, which can lead me into action as an instrument of the Divine, with just one mission, to help people realize the Truth. I have no goals, no desires as I know I do nothing. I just live blissfully and peacefully, enjoying every moment of life.

106
    AFTERWORD

May this book inspire you to let go of the passion for Success, as you aspire to evolve and transcend the peaks of Happiness, till you are liberated from all misery and sorrow, with the realization of the Truth. Then you too can live in Nirvana, in Ananda, a state of ecstasy, joy, bliss, and peace, unknown to common man.

  "

  "

107
    SUMMARY - AFTERWORD

MY HAPPINESS JOURNEY

  * I too passionately wanted Success from an early age, building a retail empire and making millions.

  * While I was successful, and made a lot of money and seemed Happy, there was something missing.

  * Making money made me Happy, but making a difference in the lives of the poor and needy gave me peace and joy that surpassed the Happiness from achievement.

  * As I transformed my life from achievement to contentment and fulfillment, my mentor and Guru, Dada J. P. Vaswani provoked me to go on a quest and a search for something beyond this plateau called Fulfilment.

  * I realized some Truths that metamorphized my life completely. I changed my name to AiR – Atman in Ravi.

  * I realized that we are the Divine Soul, the Life Energy that gives breath and without which there is death. We are not the body, although we have a body.

  * The realization of the Truth of who we are, liberated me completely from all misery and sorrow, leading to eternal Happiness and peace.

  * Today I live in Nirvana, a state of Ananda, and experience an ecstasy of eternal bliss, everlasting peace, joy, and tranquillity.

  * My own life journey is a testimony of the Truth – Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success.

108
    POEM

SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...

HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

If Success was Happiness Then achievers would be glad But look around and you will find That many of them are sad

Of course, Achievement gives joy

And excitement, oh boy!

But when our need becomes our greed

To misery, this will lead

The whole world is chasing Success Everyone wants achievement Sometimes we win, sometimes we lose There is no Contentment

Why do people want to succeed?

Why is everyone in a race?

The Truth is that we want to win So that there is a smile on our face

109
    POEM

But though we win, we are not glad

We have money, why are we sad?

Happiness is not money, the sages said It's sleeping soundly when you are in bed

We hear of suicides in the homes of the rich If they were Happy, then why this glitch?

Although they are achievers, this fact we know They are not Happy, their face has no glow

If successful, but unhappy, what is the use?

Winning or smiling, what would you choose?

The purpose of Success is for us to be glad

What is the use of winning, if it makes us sad?

Happiness is something different, we learn Not just money that we earn and burn

Happiness is built on a foundation of peace Then we are blissful like waves in the seas

Look around at the people who are glad

They live in the moment, they are never sad

They don't swing from the future to the past

They are the ones whose Happiness lasts

110
    POEM

Happiness has no price tag, know this my friend

It's a state of mind where nothing can offend

It's being able to smile, and able to laugh

Not just trying to raise our Success graph

We can't measure joy in dollar and pound Happy is he who peace has found Though we may fly the world around We may be miserable on the ground

Success is not Happiness, this Truth we must know

We may have everything, what's the use of this show?

The truly successful one is he

Who lives with smile, laughter, and glee

If one is Happy, then one has achieved all

One doesn't have to be rich and in fame be tall

One can have little, but if content is he

Then he can live joyously

Achievement gives Happiness, this fact we know

But with Fulfilment and Contentment, does Happiness grow

One who is Happy, doesn't need to win

He has Peace and Joy without committing sin

111
    POEM

Joy doesn't need a foundation of cash One doesn't have to be rich, to enjoy life's bash Happiness is a simple state of the mind It comes from being loving, it comes from being Kind

Happiness is Success. It is achieving life's goal It is being Happy in the heart, Peaceful in the Soul True Happiness is eternal, not just a moment of joy It last's forever, it can't be destroyed

Success is a journey of valleys and peaks

Life is a see-saw, there are laughs and squeaks

Success, unlike Happiness, doesn't last for long

But the truly Happy ones always sing a Happy song

So, Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success You may be an achiever, whose heart is not at rest But though not successful, if Happy you are Then you are an achiever, you are the very best

by

112
    ABOUT THE AUTHOR - AiR

AiR – Atman or the Soul in Ravi, is an embodied Soul whose only mission in life is to help people realize the Truth.

He was born in Bangalore on October 15, 1966. At a very young age, Ravi V. Melwani mastered the craft of business and became a very successful businessman who revolutionized retailing in India with the stores KidsKemp, Big KidsKemp, and Kemp Fort.

After making millions, he realized that life is not just about making money. He shut down his business at the age of 40, transformed his life to RVM, living by the RVM philosophy – Rejoice, Value Life, and Make a Difference. He started doing H.I.S. work – Humanitarian, Inspirational and Spiritual work. His mission was to 'Make a Difference' in this world before his journey was over.

As a part of the humanitarian initiative, a charitable hospital and charitable homes were set up with an aim to provide free medical treatment and care to the poor, destitute, and needy. Today, over 700 homeless and

113
    ABOUT THE AUTHOR

suffering people are served and cared for in destitute homes and provided with free shelter, food, clothing, and medical care.

A School of Inspiration was set up that inspired the lives of many people through motivating talks, inspirational books and videos, and thought-provoking quotes.

A Shiva Temple was built in the year 1995 in Bangalore, which is now known as the Shivoham Shiva Temple. AiR now believes that religion is just a kindergarten of Spirituality, and we all have to go beyond religion to truly realize God.

One day, his Guru provoked him to introspect: What is the purpose of life? Is life just meant to seek pleasures and to live and die without any purpose? What happens after death? Will we be reborn? Where is God? Several questions like these took him on a quest, a search for the Truth. He gave up his life of Achievement and Fulfillment in search of the final peak of life: Enlightenment.

After a few years of intense search in retreat, deep in the

114
    ABOUT THE AUTHOR

mountains, he realized that we are not this body. We are the Soul, the Atman. He changed his name to AiR –Atman in Ravi. He metamorphosed to AiR and gave up his entire life as RVM and started living as an instrument of God doing His Divine Will. This led to several realizations that formed his new mission of life – to help people Realize the Truth.

Since then, AiR's life has been dedicated to reaching out and helping people to eradicate the ignorance that we live in. Truth is Truth but our mind does not realize that. With AiR's own realization, he has published several books, written bhajans, blogs, quotes, poems and taken up several other initiatives that can direct people towards the Truth. His vision, now, is to help people to Ask, Investigate, and Realize. He believes that unless people ask questions, they will never start a quest and even if they start the quest unless they really investigate, they will not realize the Truth. This Truth cannot be learned in a school, college or university, it must be realized. AiR has dedicated his life to helping people realize the Truth.

115
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

1. Talaash

'Talaash' means Search or Quest. This book by AiR is his personal journey to realize the Truth where he shares his realization that we are not the body and the mind that we seem to be. We are a power. The Divine life force is known as Soul, Spirit or Atman. This search and quest by AiR made him transform his

life. It is a quest that made him realize the Truth. It might be just that book that inspires you to liberation.

2. 3 Peaks of Happiness

3 Peaks of Happiness by AiR is a simple book that talks about the quest of all humanity. Everybody wants to be Happy. But is everybody Happy? No. The reason is we are stuck on the first peak of Happiness – Achievement. 20% of the people are lucky to climb the second peak of Happiness – Fulfilment,

which comes from contentment. But there is a third peak beyond. The third peak of Happiness will liberate you

116
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

from the prisons of misery and sorrow and give you eternal Joy and Bliss.

3. My Guru, My Mentor, My God on Earth

My Guru, My Mentor, My God on Earth is a book by AiR in which he shares his experiences with his Guru who was not just his Guru and Mentor, but

also his God on Earth. We all need a coach, a teacher to help us understand, guide us to live life and this book "My Guru" will inspire you to find your Guru or to make your relationship with your Guru more fulfilling and meaningful.

  4. I will Never Die. Death is not "The End"

In the journey of his life, AiR realized many Truths. One of the Truths was that he would never die. The body will die, but the one who lives in the body never dies. We are not the bodies that we wear; we are the ones who wear the body. Death is not the end. It is a bend to

117
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

transcend. This book reveals the Truth about Death.

5. Death is Not "The End". Death is "Liberation"

Death is Not "The End". Death is "Liberation" – the second book in the series of books on death by AiR – touches upon the secret of the Kathopanishad, which talks about what happens at death. One of two things happen – if we think we are the body and mind as a doer, we are reborn. But if we think we are not the body and mind, but the Energy, we are liberated to eternal joy and peace.

6. I am not I. Who am I?

I am not I. Who am I? – is a very interesting book by AiR, which talks of his quest and realization that we are not who we think we are. We have a house, but we are not the house. We have a car, but we are not the car. We have a body, but we are not the body. We may have a mind, but we are not the mind. Who are we? Realize the Truth.

118
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

7. The Mind is a Rascal

Can you believe that the mind is a rascal?

You always thought that the mind is king

– it is everything. But just try this. Sit quietly for an hour, and try to find the mind. Where is it? You will find the mind doesn't exist. This amazing book by AiR will teach us that the mind is our enemy. It is the one that makes us suffer. It is time to find the rascal and to kill it. How do you do it?

8. A Cosmic Drama

This book authored by AiR challenges us to think that whatever is happening in life is not real. It is nothing but a drama. The earth is a big stage, and we are all actors who come and go. There is no need to worry and cry till we die. If we understand the Truth, we can enjoy the show called life.

119
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

9. Who is God? Where is God? What is God?

Well, this might seem to be a simple set of questions, but nobody really knows the answers. We all know that God exists. We pray to a God as per our religion but what is the Truth about God? Has anybody seen God? Where is God? This simple book will change your perception and belief about God and bring you closer to this Power called God. It will help you realize God.

10. The A to Z of Karma

Most people are aware of the concept of Karma – the Law. What you give is what you get. But not everybody knows the A to Z of Karma, that we can actually transcend Karma, escape from it and achieve Moksha, Nirvana, Liberation or Enlightenment. This book reveals the secret – of eternal joy and peace - a life without any misery or suffering.

120
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

11. Who Are You & Why Are You Here?

'Who are you and why are you' here is a simple book which challenges us to discover the secret of our life. Most of us think we are the body-mind complex, but in reality, we are not. The body will die and return to dust. Where is the mind, we cannot find. Who are we in reality? And beyond that what is the purpose of life on earth. This book will give you all the answers.

12. The 4th Factor

Man thinks that he can achieve anything. He believes that there is nothing in this world he can't do. But, he doesn't realize that his efforts and equipment are not enough to decide the results of his actions. Sometimes, he does his best but things don't work out the way he wants.

He then realizes the importance of the 4th Factor, a factor that makes the possible, possible and without its consent even the possible becomes impossible.

121
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

13. Be Happy in the NOW!

Every human being on earth wants to be Happy. There is nobody who enjoys pain. People want to achieve Happiness but they fail to realize that Happiness is the journey itself, not the destination. Then, what is the secret of eternal joy, bliss, and peace? It is being Happy in the NOW. Every time we let the suffering of

yesterday take charge of our life, we destroy the joy of today. When our thoughts anxiously jump into what may happen in the future, we lose the tranquility of the present moment. We seem to be like helpless monkeys jumping from one branch to another, from yesterday to tomorrow. And in the bargain, we lose the gift of being Happy in the present. With this book, AiR hopes to inspire people to live life moment by moment, if they really want to be Happy.

14. Questions You Must Answer Before You Die

Most of us live and die but we don't ask the question – Why? We just exist! We don't want to invest time in asking essential questions which are actually needed to

122
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

lead a fulfilling and blissful life. There are so many critical questions that we must answer before our journey of life is over. What will happen to us after we die? Who created this universe? How can we be Happy all the time? Who is God, where is God, what is God? Like this, there are so many questions which

we are ignorant about and somehow, we believe that ignorance is bliss. We blissfully live in ignorance till we die. Isn't it time to stop and ask questions?

15. Suffer No More

Suffer No More is a personal experience of overcoming anguish, anxiety, distress, and grief. We all suffer physical pain. Who on earth can escape from it? But while there is pain, can we do away with the suffering? What is suffering? While we all experience it, have we gone on a quest to understand what the

primary cause of misery is? We live in this ignorance, this myth, that suffering is an unavoidable part of life.We can be free from suffering if only we realize that

123
    BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR

we are the prisoners of negative emotions that continue to make us miserable. Suffer No More is an analysis of suffering, what causes it and how we can overcome it. If one wants to truly live with eternal joy and everlasting peace, it's possible! This book will help you Realize the Truth and Suffer No More!

16. Success is not Happiness... Happiness is Success

Coming Soon

17. God = Happiness

||Om Namah Shivaya|| ||Shivoham||

Visit | or Scan the QR Code | A.i.R.

---|---|---

to download the AiR - Atman in Ravi App. | AiR Institute of Realization

www.air.ind.in | air@air.ind.in | Ask Investigat e Realize

124
 SUCCESS IS NOT HAPPINESS...

HAPPINESS IS SUCCESS

Who doesn't want to be successful? Everyone wants to be an achiever, but have you thought why? It is because we believe that Success will give us Happiness.

We spend our entire life trying to be achievers and become successful so that we can be blissful and peaceful. But the irony is that sometimes, even the most successful people are not Happy.

Unfortunately, we have got the equation all wrong.

We believe Success = Happiness. But this is not true.

What is the right formula? It is, Happiness = Success.

Yes, it is absolutely true that those who are Happy, are already successful. They don't need to succeed. They have already achieved the very objective of Success – to be Happy.

Then where is the need to be an achiever, to succeed?

Learn this secret – Success is not Happiness, Happiness is Success and live your life with Peace, Joy, and Bliss, rather than just living in a Maze trying to be an Ace, in a Chase that is just a Rat-Race!

by

A.i.R.

AiR Institute of Realization

Ask Investigat e Realize

Kemp Fort Mall, #97, Old Airport Road, Bangalore - 560017

+91 9845155555 | www.air.ind.in | air@air.ind.in
