 
That Dog, Young Jae

By

Suilan Lee
**That Dog, Young Jae**

Copyright © 2012 by Suilan Lee

Edited January 2020

Cover Art by Liang Woo

**License Statement**  
This e-book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This e-book may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each reader. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.
Table of Contents

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

Chapter Eight

Epilogue

About

Other Stories
Chapter One

Jun Min Ho ran along the street weaving through a thick pedestrian crowd. He jumped over a suitcase and grinned when the owner yelled at him but he did not stop. Three men in black suits ran after him. Min marveled at the extremes he had to go through to enjoy a couple of hours with his friends as he crossed a traffic-ridden street.

When he got across, Min adjusted the straps of his bag. He pulled off the reading glasses he was wearing and threw them into a trashcan. Hair swept into his eyes, and he pushed it back in an impatient gesture. He risked a glance behind him and was glad when he couldn't see the suits anymore. A quick glance at his watch told him he was late. His cell phone buzzed and he answered it.

"Jihu, I'm a block away."

"Why did you choose this place? We're stuck in traffic."

"I just crossed the scramble." Min looked at the cars on the street hoping to see a familiar car. "Which car are you using?"

"Don't move. I see you," Jihu said.

A customized blue Mazda swung into the curb and he smiled. The driver's window came down and he grinned at the sight of Jihu's scowling face.

"Get in. I have to fight my way back into this awful mess," Jihu ordered clearly frustrated with traffic.

The back passenger door swung open and Kaori, his childhood friend, grinned at him.

"Hurry up, Min," she said.

Min slid into the backseat beside Kaori and shut the door just as traffic surged into motion.

Jihu managed to maneuver into the line of traffic.

Min pulled off the bag from his back and dumped it on the floor with a relieved sigh.

"What are you wearing?" Jihu teased, looking at him through the rearview mirror, his tone sympathetic. "Are we pulling you out of a board meeting?"

"A gallery opening," Min complained.

Min pulled off his bowtie and unbuttoned the first three buttons of his pristine white shirt. He took off the suit jacket and dumped it on his lap. Kaori touched his shoulder and held out a handkerchief. He took it with a smile and used it to wipe sweat off his forehead.

"Hi gal, you look hot."

"You're late." Kaori accused without heat, her cat eyes smiling at him. "I thought you were going to miss the party of the month again."

She reached for the bag at his feet and opened it.

"You need to change. They won't let you into the club wearing that suit. Why were you at a gallery opening so early?"

"He's a puppet," Shin Haewon said, from the front passenger seat.

Min glanced up to meet angry dark chocolate eyes in the rear view mirror.

"Shouldn't you learn to make your own decisions, Min?" Shin asked with a raised brow.

Min looked away and started unbuttoning the rest of his shirt.

Shin did not need an explanation. They had been over this a million times. Min could not cast off the responsibilities that came with his birthright. He had tried and failed. His father had instead employed a set of bodyguards to monitor his every move. He could not even go to the bathroom without them knowing.

His father, Kang Jun, was a successful entrepreneur and politician. Being Kang's only son and heir, Min's life was decided the moment he took his first breath. His destiny was to head Hanje Group and he could do nothing to change that.

Min sighed, his shoulders slumping.

"I'm sorry I brought it up." Shin's apologetic tone made him look up to find those dark eyes watching him.

"I don't care what you think, Shin," Min said.

Why couldn't Shin ever understand his life?

Maybe it was because their families were so different.

At twenty- five, Shin lived in his own apartment and ran an IT company funded by his father. Shin was pursuing what he wanted to do, his dream. They had dated a few years ago, but Min's strict life had pulled them apart. Shin could not understand why Min had to live with full daily schedules.

Frustrated by Shin's attitude, Min pulled off his shirt and smiled in satisfaction when Shin's gaze fell on his washboard abs. At least that never changed between them. Shin always wanted him.

"You're staring." Min pointed out with a smirk.

"Who's looking?" Shin counted, his gaze slid away to stare out the window.

Min did not miss the small smile playing on Shin's lips.

Jihu shook his head at their conversation as he geared the car.

Min pulled on a black slim-fit shirt. Kaori folded his white dress shirt and the suit jacket. She handed him the black jeans she pulled out of the bag. Once he dressed, Min put his cell phone and the clothes he had removed into the bag. His father's security team loved to put tracking chips in his clothes. He made Jihu stop by a trashcan to dump the bag.

"The suits will be looking for me." Min explained when Shin looked at him with concern.

"Those cell phone companies should thank you. You're helping their business along by yourself."

"What's with you today? I've already had enough shit getting away from those stupid goons my father insists I need."

"Can we have the lover's spat later?" Jihu asked, turning the car toward Yonsei University. "Shin, you tell him what those seniors said yesterday."

"We have to stop at Yonsei main campus. My friend will give us the location details about the rave," Shin said.

"You mean we don't even know where we're going?" Min asked, rolling his eyes. "I don't know why you are mad at me, Shin. Is it because I couldn't get away sooner? You know I'm not as free as you are. Just getting out the door is such a big deal."

"That's not the problem. Why do you insist on doing it alone?" Shin turned in his seat to face Min, his dark wavy hair falling over his forehead.

"You would have gotten hurt getting involved with those men," Min said, remembering the last time he let Shin help him.

His bodyguards had treated Shin like a terrorist. Shin hadn't been able to hold back his anger and had ended up fighting with them.

"Shin, don't yell anymore otherwise my efforts will have been wasted if we're all angry," Min begged.

"Shin," Jihu said, moving his right hand from the steering wheel to touch Shin's shoulder. "Settle down, I'm getting nervous trying to drive while you two bicker."

Shin sighed and with one last glance at Min, he turned around to stare out the window.

Min cleared his throat and tried for a lighter mood. He turned to Kaori with a smile.

"I haven't seen you guys in three weeks. What have you been up to?"

Kaori grabbed on to the change of topic.

"Yesterday, we went for a fashion show at my mother's gallery," Kaori said. "You should have seen these two going crazy over the models. Seriously, men are all the same."

Jihu accelerated the car.

"What was I supposed to do when they were throwing themselves at me?" Jihu asked.

Min laughed.

Jihu was a ladies' man all the way. They had known each other since kindergarten and it never changed. Jihu was the mood setter in their group, always ready to take action no matter the situation. He was the reliable friend always waiting with the getaway car.

Min found his gaze straying back to Shin as Kaori continued to talk about the fashion show the night before. Shin loved casual clothing. He did not allow many people close, his perpetual cold expression warned people away. Despite the cold attitude, Shin had a soft heart hidden behind all the hardness. Where Jihu was the mood setter, Shin was the problem solver. Shin could take on every problem if allowed.

"Is your dad out of town?" Kaori asked Min. "We need to be careful if he isn't. I'm sure that henchman who is always following him will come to fetch you."

"Dad left yesterday morning," Min assured her.

Kaori was the daughter of a fashion designer mother and an artist father. Her bright personality appealed her to everyone she met. Min thought of her as a sister since they were the same age. They shopped, discussed boys and fought over them.

He smiled at that thought. Kaori had been the first person to find out he was gay. She had gotten him through his coming out phase. It was unimaginable how much he depended on Kaori's free spirited nature.

"Can I sleep over your house tonight?" he asked.

"Well," Kaori said, her gaze dropping to her lap.

"Do you have a date?" Min asked in excitement. "Who is he? Do I know him?"

"No, it's—," Kaori started then stopped.

"We're all sleeping over at Shin's tonight," Jihu said. "My parents are home, and Kaori's parents have weeklong visitors. We figured Shin's house is more convenient."

Min glanced at Shin puzzled by the answer. He couldn't help wondering why everyone seemed so anxious. Kaori's nervous glance made him think something was wrong. He had not seen them in three weeks. He hated feeling as if he was an outsider when he loved them all so much.

***

"Sir, we lost him."

A solemn faced man with short dark hair and average height informed Young Jae. The bodyguard kept his head bowed as he addressed him.

"I'm sorry, sir. We did the best we could."

"By saying _him_ , I assume you're talking about Jun Min Ho."

Young Jae spoke in a flat tone, not bothering to stop typing away on his laptop.

It had been an especially long day. Mr. Kang was due back home in the morning.

Young Jae needed to finish the three proposals he was working on before Mr. Kang returned. Their schedule was tight because Mr. Kang had insisted on making time for his son later in the day.

A son that was now missing in action, Young Jae sighed.

If Min Ho was still missing in the morning, the explanations were going to be very difficult. Just thinking about that brat made his temper rise. What was Min thinking running around the darned city like this?

"What time did he go missing?" Young Jae asked.

"Three o'clock this afternoon, sir."

Young Jae glanced at his watch casually. He got to his feet when he saw the time. It was already ten o'clock at night.

"Why didn't anyone say anything? Do you have a clue as to where he is?"

"The last time we saw him, he was running down Rodeo Street. We lost him in the crowd and haven't been able to figure out where he went."

"He could be anywhere by now." Young Jae closed his laptop and moved around his desk to stare at the bodyguard standing there with his head bowed. "What are you doing out there?"

"We're still looking, sir." The bodyguard bowed lower. "I waited to tell you because I thought we'd catch up to him before the incident would need reporting. Unfortunately, Master Min has turned into a professional when it comes to escaping. We found his cell phone and tagged clothes in a trashcan near a sports complex."

"Did you call his friends?" Young Jae asked, shuddering at the thought of Min's three friends. No doubt, Shin Haewon was to blame for this. "There is no doubt on my mind that they are all together. Contact their various homes and find out where they are."

"We have, sir. Their parents don't know where they are. Shin lives independently."

Of course, their independence only makes my life that much harder.

Young Jae shook his head in disgust at the thought of Min laughing at him with his friends. Min was going to get it when he got home. His work was going to have to wait until they found Min, which meant he had no hope of sleep tonight.

I'm really going to kill him.

Young Jae wished Min would think of others before he went gallivanting to places unknown. He took his cell phone from the desk.

"I'll go check Jihu's apartment at the university. His friends might know where they went. Why don't you have the security team check Shin's house and Kaori's home?"

Young Jae picked up his suit jacket as the bodyguard left his office. He removed his tie and stuck it into his pocket. Rubbing the five o'clock shadow on his jaw, he wished for a bed. As he strode out of his office, he muttered curses against Min until he reached the elevator.

Here he was, fighting off exhaustion, while Min's job was to make things worse by the minute. Getting back at that brat was going to be sweet victory, he thought as the elevator doors opened.

***

"Wow," Kaori exclaimed, jumping off her stool as the music started to play. "This place is off the scale. I'm so happy we were able to come. Thanks, Shin."

Min laughed while Shin shrugged, an elegant flex of muscles that had Min staring.

Kaori reached for Jihu's hand dragging him to the crowded dance floor as the band on stage struck the first chord. She danced to the music as they joined the frenzied crowd.

They had made it into the Tower Building on time. The organizers of the rave had turned the building's underground parking lot into an exclusive rave for the infamous _Underground Band Wars (Jibaje)_. Musicians from all over Seoul would meet this one night to rock out. Drinks were on the house provided by the sponsors of the rave.

Entrance into the rave was exclusive.

_Money couldn't get you in,_ Min thought. To get into _Jibaje,_ they had needed serious street connections.

Shin was a miracle worker with these kinds of things.

Min suddenly realized that none of it mattered. His gaze finding Shin's again, he stared as the handsome man sipped at his beer. All he cared about was that he was getting to spend time with his friends. His life got lonely, too many people wanting to meet him, none of them trustworthy.

"What are you thinking about?" Shin interrupted his thoughts. "Although, I wonder what that brain of yours could hold considering the level of your intellect."

"Are you going to pick on me all night?" Min reached for his drink a bit too quickly and hit the bottle making it spill on the table.

"Seriously, Min, how do you survive?" Shin reached for napkins from the bar counter, dropping them on the mess on the table. Min tried to help, but Shin slapped his hands away for his effort. "How did you manage to get away on your own?"

"None of your business," Min replied, glaring at him. Shin was acting like an idiot and he had had enough. "Why are you so pissed off? If you didn't want me to come you should have said so."

"Did I say I didn't want you here?" Shin asked, leaving the messed up napkins on the edge of the table, he reached for his own beer.

Shin sat on his stool, those dark chocolate eyes staring at him as if they could read everything.

Min hated it when Shin looked at him that way. He had been so desperate to get away earlier, to come see him, why was Shin acting like such an ass.

Min slid off his stool.

"I can leave," Min said.

Shin caught Min's right hand, his long fingers circling around Min's wrist to stop him.

"I'm sorry," Shin said. "I'm just mad at myself. I wanted to help and you wouldn't let us."

Aware that Shin was looking at him, Min kept his gaze away because he could feel the threat of tears swimming in his eyes. Shin had the unique ability to make him feel like a wimpy teenager in high school. He didn't want to cry, not now, not in front of Shin. He couldn't let Shin know how lonely he got without him.

Shin tugged on his wrist until Min sat his head down as he tried to force the tears away. He closed his eyes, and the tears slid down his cheeks betraying him.

Seeing them, Shin cursed under his breath.

"Don't cry, Min."

"Who's crying?" Min asked, brushing the offensive tears away from his cheeks quickly. "I don't cry."

Shin chuckled.

"Of course not, I'm just imagining things. You know if it gets that bad, you can always use your cell phone to call me. You know that right. I don't recall getting a phone call from you."

Min shrugged and looked at Shin, his eyelashes clamped together from his tears.

"I just got a cell phone last week. Young Jae has been controlling my calls through my assistant."

"Why do you let that man control you like this?" Shin asked, disgust for Young Jae quite clear on his face. "Young Jae is a bastard. He's only twenty-six, what will happen when he gets older? Min, you have to stand up to him. I know you're two years his junior, but you have the status to stop him. Fight him, there is no reason he should treat you this way."

Young Jae was most definitely directing Hanje security teams in a search for Min. The moment they found him, Young Jae would put him under lockdown again.

Min shuddered at that thought and decided he didn't have time to waste. He was going to spend the precious hours of freedom he had with his trio of friends and have fun.

"Can we not talk about my life? Shin, don't you want to dance with me?"

Min got up suddenly feeling energetic as the music changed into a fast techno beat.

"Come on let's dance, I feel like a little sweat."

***

Shin sipped his beer and got up following Min as they headed to the dance floor.

Min navigated his way through the crowd easily, making his way to the center of the crowd where the energy was wild and stimulating. Min's shirt was unbuttoned down to his stomach because of the heat. He swayed to the music, his hips moving to the beat.

Shin smiled as Min's inhibitions floated away, his Min finally emerging.

Despite the elegance, the first class breeding, hidden inside the uptight Min was a wild unrestrained personality that only came out when Min was comfortable.

To solidify Shin's thoughts, Min started dancing, his movements wild and unrestrained, eyes closed, the pulsing music his muse. Shin wanted to feel that energy, touch it. He wondered every day what it would feel like to caress that sculpted chest. Run his hands over those gyrating hips; feel them move in search of ecstasy...

Gods, it was hot in here.

Shin sipped his beer, and touched the bottle to his temple. Min glanced at him then and smiled. A seductive smile, his gaze inviting, Min beckoned him closer.

Shin obliged, as his hand moved to touch Min's moving hips, he vaguely wondered what that dog, Young Jae, would say if he were to see Min like this.

***

Chapter Two

Min stood up and the ground started coming at him fast. Reaching out to grab on to Shin's jacket he closed his eyes and opened them again. Thankfully, the ground was right where it was supposed to be. He turned to Shin and grinned.

"I think I'm drunk."

"No kidding," Shin chuckled, glancing around the dark street.

They still had a few blocks to go before they got to his house. Since they had all gotten tipsy, they had taken a taxi and stopped at a coffee shop for caffeine to help them sober up. Min had drunk the most; and he was barely half way to sober.

"You can't hold your liquor," Shin accused. "This is what happens when we let you free in a club with free booze."

"It's not that bad." Min let go of Shin's jacket to show him he could walk just fine, but the world spun. He bent over his hands braced on his knees. "It's not my fault the earth keeps moving. Make it stop, Shin."

"You are an impossible drunk." Shin took his right hand and crouched in front of him. "Get on."

"Get on where?" Min asked, his arm held over Shin's right shoulder. He blinked as he stared at Shin's back. "Oh, are you going to give me a piggy ride? Can you even handle it? I'm very heavy."

"Come on, Min. Jihu and Kaori are already at the house. We've been on this road for twenty minutes."

Min chuckled and wrapped his arms around Shin's neck. He pressed his chest to Shin's back his movements wobbly and unsure. He smiled when Shin stood up with him on his back. Resting his chin on Shin's shoulder, he breathed in Shin's scent.

"You're very warm, Shin."

"And you're very wasted." Shin set a steady pace, and in ten minutes, they were walking up the short drive to Shin's building. "Do you feel like you're going to get sick? You had better warn me so I put you down."

"I wouldn't do that to you." Min closed his eyes as Shin reached for the gate to the compound and pulled it open. They walked up to the front door and Shin put in his code on the lock. When it clicked open, they entered the quiet foyer.

"We need to get you more coffee." Shin dropped him gently onto a bench in the corridor.

Smelling his shirt, Min sighed at the scent of beer that had spilt on him while he danced. Leaning back on the wall, he watched Shin pull of his jacket and hang it in the closet.

Min didn't want coffee. He had already had enough to drink. He was about to state just that when Kaori's angry voice reached him. Frowning, he looked toward the living room.

"Why are they fighting?"

Min moved to stand up but Shin intercepted him.

"Let's go to the kitchen," Shin said. "I'll make you coffee."

Shrugging Shin's hand off his shoulder, Min started for the living room.

"It's probably Jihu pissing her off. Come on, we have to stop them from fighting, _hyung_." ( _Big brother_ )

"Min," Shin started to protest but Min kept going.

Min used the wall to steady his steps to the living room. The closer he got the clearer Kaori and Jihu's voice came to him.

"Min, it's not our business, it's probably Jihu trying to get with Kaori again."

"They are our friends, Shin."

Min started to hurry into the living room until Kaori spoke and her words stopped him at the door.

"We should tell Min. This is going to affect him too. This acting like everything is fine for two days is not helping. I can't take it."

"It's better this way. He counts on us to recharge. We should at least be able to give him tonight without spoiling things." Jihu's tone was pleading.

"It's mean. Min deserves better," Kaori declared.

Min walked into the living room and glared at the two facing off with a couch between them.

"Why do I deserve better?" Min asked.

Jihu glanced up in surprise, his gaze narrowing and focusing on Shin behind him.

"You can't warn us?" Jihu asked Shin.

"He heard you arguing." Shin dropped on the nearest couch.

"Min," Kaori said, taking a step toward him.

"Tell me what's going on," Min said.

He had sensed an underlying tension among his friends all night. He just hadn't known what was causing it.

"We're leaving," Kaori said, her tone so low, he barely heard her.

"Leaving?" Min asked puzzled. "You're not staying over? Is that what this is about?"

"Not leaving Shin's house, we're going abroad, Min." Kaori clarified. "We'll all be gone for a year and a half, give or take a few months."

Min stared at her feeling like an idiot. He didn't know whether to smile or cry. These were his friends. The only people he trusted in the world.

Without them—

Min took a step back, and then turned away from Jihu and Kaori.

What was he going to do?

Min wiped a hand down his face and took in a deep breath.

"Um..."

Even questions were hard to formulate. Walking to a stool, he sat for balance.

"Say something," Jihu said, coming to crouch beside him, placing a hand on his shoulder. "Min, I'm sorry. I didn't want to tell you like this. I thought it should be tomorrow at lunch when we're all sober."

"It's better this way." Min met Jihu's concerned gaze and faked a smile. "Where are you going?"

"I'm going for an engineering exchange program in London." Jihu nodded to Kaori. "Her mother is taking her to Tokyo. They are launching a boutique there and Shin—"

"Shin was awarded a contract by Vodacom." Min finished for Jihu. "I heard it through my father, but I didn't think you would have to leave Seoul. You're going to Switzerland."

"I need to for the first year," Shin said.

"That's why you called me yesterday." Min sighed understanding their reasoning. It was good to meet before they left. "I'm happy for you. All of you, this is good news for all of you."

Kaori stared at him for a moment.

"Min, you don't have to act like its good news," she said, her voice laced with tears. "I know this is hard—"

Min shook his head.

"It's not hard," Min cut her off. "You deserve so much more. I'm really happy for all of you."

Standing up, Min hugged Jihu and moved to hug Kaori. Pressing a kiss on Kaori's cheek, he wiped away the tears on her cheeks.

"It's not like we won't call each other," he soothed.

Letting her go, Min turned to Shin.

"You should have told me earlier," Min said. "We would have opened a champagne bottle and celebrated. That contract is worth a lot of money. Your company is set, Shin."

"I didn't want to brag." Shin laughed and stood up. "Besides, I've yet to win you in net worth. Bragging rights will only happen when I've bested you, Jun Min Ho."

Min was about to hug Shin when the doorbell rang. Shin frowned and left the living room to go open the door. Kaori came to stand beside Min. She slipped her arm around his waist.

"I know what you're doing," Kaori said. "I'm not stupid."

"What am I doing, Kaori?" Min asked, smiling at her.

His smile froze when he saw Young Jae enter the living room. Kaori gasped beside him.

"Let's go." Young Jae ordered.

Two bodyguards in black suits stalked toward Min. Kaori held on tightly to his waist as the men stopped right before him. One of them reached to grab his arm and he gave the gesture a warning glance.

"This is Shin's house. Can't you show some respect, Young Jae?" Min demanded glaring at the two suits.

"You show some respect first." Young Jae stood with his hands at his hips. "Please don't make this any harder than it needs to be."

"Leave my house," Shin said, running into the living room. He looked flustered, like he had just been arguing. Shin ignored Min's concerned gaze and glared at Young Jae. "You can't budge in here like you own the place."

"Don't get me started," Young Jae said. "Min, come on, if you don't want your friend here to get hurt. You know the drill."

Min really hated Young Jae at that moment. His disgust for the man threatened to choke him. Shin had his hands clenched in fists. One more word from Young Jae was probably going to trigger him.

"Don't," Kaori started, when she felt him shift. "We can bargain with him. This is the only time we'll be together like this. Jihu and Shin are leaving on Monday."

"Move it, Min. I still have work to do. Your father is landing at six in the morning." Young Jae glanced at his watch. "That's three hours from now. Stop playing around."

"You can't talk to him that way." Jihu shook a fist at Young Jae. "Seriously, have you lost your mind? Who do you think you are?"

"Jihu, stop," Min said. "I'll leave with him. You guys need to sleep."

"Min," Kaori said, holding him in panic. "We won't see you after this."

"It will be fine." Hugging her, Min held her tight for a moment before he let go. "If you run into problems call me."

"I will." She let go of him and Min turned to Jihu. "Don't do anything I wouldn't do."

"I'm a bit wilder than you, Jun Min Ho." Jihu patted his back when they hugged. "I'll come back to beat that ch _aebol_ ( _heir)_ shine off you. I wouldn't want it to settle."

Min laughed.

"I'll expect it."

Young Jae glared at Min as Min walked toward him.

Ignoring the bastard, Min turned to Shin. Taking Shin's fisted right hand in his, Min took him out of the living room. He found a private alcove just off the main corridor. Min wrapped his arms around Shin and pressed a kiss on Shin's soft lips. It was a light kiss, one meant to soothe instead of arouse.

They had a lot of history between them. He remembered the time they dated. A long time ago, it felt like ancient history, but kissing Shin now, that time felt like yesterday. His heart surged with nostalgia.

Shin pulled away first, breathing hard his hands sliding up Min's back pulling him closer.

"I wanted to tell you myself, but it felt too hard," Shin said. "I worry about you, Min, even when I shouldn't."

"I think that has always been the biggest problem between us." Min met Shin's gaze. "I love you, _hyung_. That will never change."

"I love you too." Shin kissed his forehead. "I don't like how Young Jae looks at you. Find a decent boyfriend, already."

"I used to have one." Min smiled. "He ended up becoming my best friend."

"Well, your best friend is telling you to find a nice guy to love you more than me." Shin brushed his fingers through Min's hair. "Be good, Min. I'll email you everyday."

Min smiled and nodded. Pulling away, Min stopped Shin when he started to follow.

"Don't," Min said, "stay. You and Young Jae fighting is something I'd rather not see. Goodbye, Shin. I hope you find what you're looking for in Switzerland."

"Min," Shin said quietly.

Ignoring the soft call, Min hurried out of the alcove almost running into Young Jae. When Young Jae reached out to steady him, Min slapped his hand away and headed for the front door on his own steam. Outside, he found three men waiting for him. He let them lead him to the black SUV in the parking lot.

Once he was in the backseat, Min sat back and held on to the pain. When Young Jae slid in beside him, he had recovered his composure.

"You're a pain in the ass," Young Jae accused. "I'll be sure to have a talk with your father tomorrow morning."

"Who's stopping you?" Min asked.

It really was confusing.

How could he love three people so much with his heart, and hate another as much with the same heart. No wonder his chest hurt.

***

Chapter Three

"You have to stop being so irresponsible, Min."

His father threw the morning papers at him on the breakfast table. Min stared at the front-page pictures. A picture of Shin carrying him with the caption, ' _Assemblyman's son too drunk to walk_ ', graced the front page.

"I can't believe you haven't outgrown this."

Min had learned at an early age never to respond to his father when he was angry. Judging from the glaring eyes and the fact that Jun Kang was on his second plate of eggs, his father was beyond angry.

"You're just like your mother. I knew it was going to show up sometime, but this is too much. Why would you do this at such a critical time?"

"It is always a critical time."

Min sipped his fourth cup of coffee. He could not look at food right now. He was running on two hours of sleep. Young Jae had taken a sick kind pleasure in waking him up the moment his father arrived. Now they both sat at the dining table watching his father eat.

Glancing at Young Jae, Min shook his head when he found the other man typing furiously into his laptop. Young Jae's concentration barely disturbed by his father's ranting.

"You're the heir apparent of Hanje group. Being president of Hanje group is not easy, Min. Your reputation is important to the stability of the group. We can't have you running around drunk."

"It was one night." Min pointed out, tired of being the victim here. "Shin is my best friend, has been forever. You know that. I was perfectly capable of making decisions."

"The point is that it's on the front page. I don't care if it's Shin, Jihu, or Kaori. If you're on the front page being accused of doing something suspicious, it's a problem."

His father stabbed eggs with his fork and took a big bite.

Min looked away from the sight, his stomach protesting the thought of food. There was no winning this fight. He did not have the will power to do it.

"What do you want me to do to fix it?" Min asked, staring into his coffee.

Min hoped for an assignment that would last a year and a half. Sipping the dark liquid in his cup, he wished his father would send him away to one of their subsidiaries in some small country somewhere.

"I'm going to have you vetted." Jun Kang declared with a flourish, his fork suspended midair as he nodded his head with satisfaction. "I've had enough of the questions I keep getting from the board. Your uncle is trying to have you found incompetent because he wants me to have his son take over as C.E.O. I won't have it."

"Vetted?" Min asked in shock.

Fear was a small emotion compared to what gripped him. He wished for fear instead of the ice block settling in his body right now. It was too soon. It wasn't time yet.

"Father, you're the head of Hanje Group. I don't want to take over."

"You're my son." Kang pointed to the papers and narrowed his gaze at Min. "You're becoming easy prey for my brother. These reports are going to tarnish your reputation, and once you take over, no one will take you seriously. We need to make you strong."

"You promised you wouldn't do this when you decided to run for office." Min reminded his father. They had had this argument before. "You promised me, father.

"It's time for new blood at Hanje Group." Kang turned to Young Jae. "Young Jae, this son of mine needs to be well versed on every business under the Hanje umbrella. All sixty-five of them, you have two months."

"Father," Min gasped.

His father was losing his mind. Running through the multitude of companies in his head, Min could feel his stress levels already rising.

"Is there something else happening besides a gritty black and white photo in the newspaper?" Min asked.

"Do as I say, Min. Don't give Young Jae a hard time and work hard. You start on Monday. You'll attend all meetings regarding the group in my stead. I think you should start with the resorts in Jeju Island."

Min frowned when he saw Young Jae studying him with a curious expression. It bordered on elation, probably gloating. Those dark chocolate eyes were challenging him. Young Jae thought he couldn't do it.

Well, damn.

"I'll leave this afternoon," Min said, taking up the challenge.

Standing up, Min left his cup of coffee on the table.

"This is for the good of the company," Kang said after him.

_No, it was for the good of the Jun family reputation,_ Min thought as he headed up the stairs to his rooms.

***

"Aren't your friends coming to say goodbye to you?" Young Jae asked, when they were at the airport that afternoon. "Shin is always so eager."

"They are getting ready to leave Seoul. You know that, Young Jae. Don't pretend you don't."

Min glared at Young Jae before he adjusted the dark shades resting on his nose, and looked around the quiet lounge. His headache still lingered, his eyes were gritty from lack of sleep. The moment they landed in Jeju, he'd head straight to his hotel room and pass out until Monday morning.

"There is no need to be nervous." Young Jae came to stand beside him. "You'll be fine as long as you do what I tell you."

"I don't need advice from you. How do I know you didn't send those photographs to the papers? The security team knows where Shin lives. They are the only ones who knew where I might have been. You appeared at the house right after we arrived."

"Are you accusing me of such an underhanded thing?"

"I don't trust you the way my father does." Min ignored Young Jae's indignant tone. "You're probably working for my uncle."

Young Jae cursed under his breath and stared out the windows.

"Think what you want, Min. But we both have something to lose here."

"What is that?" Min nodded to the empty lounge. "If you mean this position my father has forced on me, I could care less. I might even be grateful if I lost it."

"I'll remind you of that statement in the future," Young Jae warned, then stalked out of the lounge.

Min could only stare after him puzzled by the statement. With his right hand, he rubbed at his left temple and wished for sleep.

***

Two weeks passed.

Two weeks filled with introductions, meetings, inspections, and decision-making.

Min felt drained.

He had met so many people, each one an important piece in Hanje Group. The complexities of the business were starting to catch up to him.

The driver took a speed bump too fast, jerking him to the present. He grabbed at the documents on his lap to keep them from falling.

Young Jae sat beside him in the back of the black limousine talking about their recent project. Young Jae had worked on the merger between Hanje Hospitality and Kai Hotels for months before Min took over. Abe Sung, the Kai Hotel director, had called Young Jae two days ago and insisted on meeting the new head of Hanje Group.

"Be firm but not overly confident. Define the terms of the merger and guarantee the current staff's positions. This was an important part of the merger-agreement talks. The director was adamant about it."

Young Jae passed him a black leather folder.

Min opened it and studied the details of the merger. He paused when he got to the financial statements. Kai Hotel was smaller in scale compared to Hanje Hospitality. Kai Hotel's financial health was weak too. They barely made profits.

"Mr. Sung wants to remain in his position." Min noted when he got to the employee records. "Is that wise?"

"He's been with Kai Hotel for a long time. He worked his way up to that position and knows everything about the business."

"You've also agreed to keep the entire staff. The numbers don't support the expense. We have to decrease the staff."

"This is not the city, Min. There are issues to consider in an area like this. The local population relies on Kai hotel economically. We promised Mr. Sung that we'd keep the staff because they have nowhere else to go. Don't walk into that office and renege."

Min closed the file and handed it to Young Jae.

"This shouldn't be a merger. Hanje Hospitality should purchase Kai Hotels. Mr. Sung is using our reputation to save his hotel."

"Min," Young Jae said, his tone prepping for an argument.

Min was starting to differentiate Young Jae's different tones. This one geared towards a ' _Min, obey without question_ ' argument.

"I cleared this with your father weeks ago. Don't mess it up."

Min hated it when Young Jae pulled that one on him. The car turned onto the drive that led up to Kai Hotel's main entrance. He placed the papers on his lap back into the briefcase between them and snapped it closed.

"I'm not my father, Young Jae. I studied the financial statements you gave me. Kai Hotel will be a very large liability if we merge. The board is approaching this from a managerial standpoint. I don't think it is right."

"The board is vetting your performance on this deal. Fix it after your official appointment," Young Jae said, as the car came to a stop.

Kai Hotel staff stood waiting at the entrance neatly dressed in burgundy. An older man in a black suit stepped forward as the valet opened Min's door.

"Min, I'm asking you—"

Min ignored Young Jae and stepped out of the car. The older man greeted Min as he closed the buttons on his suit jacket.

"Mr. Jun Min Ho. I'm Abe Sung, director of Kai Hotels. Welcome."

Min gave him a short bow of recognition and followed Mr. Sung into the hotel. He inspected the hotel décor discretely as they went to the elevators. Hanje Hospitality adhered to strict codes. Those codes kept all their resorts and hotels at the five-star mark. A critical glance told him Kai Hotel would only garner a weak three on its current code.

Young Jae caught up with them and held out the folder again.

"Mr. Jun, you forgot this in the car."

Min took the folder to maintain the courtesy Young Jae was showing him. He walked into the elevator after Mr. Sung knowing he wasn't going to be offering the deal in the folder.

***

"What did you do?" Young Jae demanded, the moment they left the hotel hours later.

Min sat quietly acting as though he had not brought down the world with a few words.

"He was ready to sign," Young Jae said.

"Hanje Group wasn't." Min shrugged. "Look, I know this is your project. You've worked hard, which is great, but you're wrong."

"I'm not wrong. The board is expecting a positive outcome, Min. This is not a game."

"I never said it was."

Min shifted in his seat to face at him.

Min's dark eyes filled with a fire he had never seen. His black hair fell over his forehead. Pushing it back with an elegant hand, Min narrowed his gaze at him.

"Mr. Sung wants to level the field with Hanje Hospitality, but the state of his hotel won't allow it. Kai Hotels can't hold up to ours. They have done the best to make it seem the same, but I could see the signs."

"So, you offered to acquire Kai Hotel."

"I offered Mr. Sung the chance to save his staff by allowing Hanje Hospitality to purchase Kai Hotel. The logistics shouldn't matter to him as long as his staff remains intact, right?"

Min looked away from him and stared straight ahead.

"What did you see that made you think this will work?" Young Jae asked, curious.

He had been toying with the idea of turning the merger into an acquisition. It irked that Min had gone ahead and done it without hesitation. Min's capacity to analyze and execute was enviable.

"Hanje owns four resorts on the island. Kai's revenue has been decreasing since we came here. This doesn't make sense because of their strategic location. Their access to national monuments on the Island is better than Hanje. They should have the sales but they don't. Gaining our hospitality stamp would raise their value."

"Mr. Sung figured if we merge, Kai Hotel's sales would increase," Young Jae said.

"Our reputation would drive customers to Kai Hotel. He is getting all the advantage. We weren't gaining anything in that deal." Min turned to smile at him. "He wasn't very pleased when I pointed it out. Anyway, he has three days to make the decision. Otherwise, we'll withdraw our offer."

"You're not a light weight after all," Young Jae praised.

Min turned to him.

"What is that supposed to mean?"

"Don't tell me you haven't heard the rumors. They call you a lightweight because of how skinny you are. Personally, I think it's the pretty face."

"When does the bastard stop with you?" Min asked, his eyes flashing with anger. "I'm tired of your comments. If you have a problem working with me, why don't you just leave?"

Young Jae was glad for the closed glass partition in the limousine. His urge to shake Min to his senses was turning into the need to kiss him senseless. Seeing that angry flush on Min's face was so darned arousing. He closed the distance between them and captured Min's chin with his right hand.

Min gave a protesting gasp.

Young Jae ignored it and instead kissed Min with all the fervor he could master. He plundered Min's mouth greedily, exploring the burning hot cavern, driving both of them to a swift passion. He pulled back abruptly when Min started punching his chest.

Young Jae took in Min's flushed cheeks and swollen lips with satisfaction.

"What was that for?" Min tried for an indignant tone, but he was shaky. The question came out in a whisper. He wiped a hand over his lips and glared.

"Isn't that the way you thank Shin? I figured I could try it out."

Min's eyes sparked with anger, and Young Jae smiled. It was so darned easy to bait Min. He was starting to enjoy it a bit too much.

"I hate you," Min hissed.

"Keep saying that, but we both know you kissed me back."

His cell phone rang and Young Jae answered the call his gaze lingering on Min's angry one.

"Young Jae here."

"Mr. Sung just caved to the demands laid down by Min. He agreed to the acquisition with the promise that Hanje keeps his staff. What the hell happened, Young Jae?" Jun Yul, Min's Uncle, demanded into his ear. "We needed that deal to go through to prove Min's incompetence. The board is now ecstatic with his business acumen. Are you helping him?"

"I had nothing to do with it." Young Jae's gaze dropped away from a scowling Min and he stared out the window. "I think our association should end soon."

"You wish. I own you, Young Jae. Don't think you can get away from me. I want that lightweight decommissioned. Keep me fully updated on his itinerary. There has to be another opening."

The line went dead and Young Jae sighed as he returned his phone to his pocket. He slid a glance to a pouting Min. For the first time since he started working for Hanje, Young Jae wished that Min would gain strength and power. He did not want to cause Min any pain.

***

Chapter Four

"She's insane."

Min glared at the elegant woman on the screen. How could she go on live television and promise to support striking Hanje factory workers?

Min grabbed the remote and switched the television off just as Young Jae walked into his bedroom.

"You need to talk to your mother." Young Jae dropped a bunch of magazines on the bed. "She's giving interviews to anyone who is willing to talk to her. She's going to destroy the group's reputation."

"I can't talk to her." Min refused to look at the magazines and concentrated on cuffing his gray shirt. "I won't get in between my parents."

"You won't be getting between them. Their stability ties into the company image. We can't afford a scandal. Your father has left for Osaka, which makes you acting head of your family." Young Jae pulled out a white envelope from his inside jacket pocket and held it out. "Your mother is hosting a gala tonight. You should show up and try talking to her."

"You are so cold-hearted, Young Jae." Min took the envelope and threw it on the bed with the magazines. "I'm not getting in between my parents' non-marriage."

"I don't think you have a choice." Young Jae closed the distance between them. He placed a gentle hand on Min's shoulder. "Look, I realize you're trying to protect your mother, but she's gone too far."

Min shrugged Young Jae's hand off his shoulder and reached for his suit jacket. His day was filled with annoying appointments with the various directors of Hanje Group. He couldn't imagine adding his mother on to the list.

"Min," Young Jae prompted when Min walked to the desk set by large wide windows. "Your parents' fights are going to pull you in sooner or later."

Min scoffed.

"That is nothing new. I've always thought staying away works best for all of us."

Min grabbed up his wallet and phone from the desk.

"We should get going. Mr. Rio doesn't like to be kept waiting."

"We can't ignore your mother's antics," Young Jae insisted. "She has to be stopped."

"She is also a Jun. She can do whatever she pleases," Min said and hurried out of his bedroom.

A frustrated Young Jae followed him downstairs to the dining room where breakfast waited. Min grabbed up the newspaper hoping if he buried his attention into the daily news, Young Jae might quit.

He gaped when he saw his mother's smiling face on the front-page promising financial support to striking workers at the Hanje Shoes factory. He folded the newspaper and put it on the table with a sigh.

"We'll swing by her house before we head to Mr. Rio's residence. I'll call ahead," Young Jae said.

Min looked up and met his gaze.

"Are you enjoying this?"

"What?" Young Jae asked, sipping his coffee.

Min shook his head and stared into his untouched coffee.

The week had been full of incidences that needed his attention. It started with a Hanje Supermarket manager who had run off with a day's worth of sales. On the same day, one of the warehouses owned by Hanje Shopping Malls burned to the ground. Thankfully, no one died in the fire, but the malls lost a considerable amount of merchandise. Two days ago, the Hanje Shoes factory workers had gone on strike.

_One incident after another_ , Min thought.

They had led to multiple complaints from the Hanje Group board of directors. He had scheduled a meeting with Mr. Rio this morning to find a way to sort out the complaints.

Min rubbed his left temple and got up from his chair.

"Let's go, we're wasting time."

"You should eat something." Young Jae urged. "Starving yourself won't fix your problems."

"I'll be in the car when you're done stuffing yourself."

Min turned on his heel, ready to leave, but Young Jae grabbed his elbow. Angry words at the tip of his tongue, he turned to yell but Young Jae stopped him with a hard, punishing kiss.

Min started to push Young Jae away, but the punishing kiss turned soft against his lips. A cajoling demand on his lips, that had him frozen as Young Jae slid gentle fingers into his hair. Young Jae pulled Min closer with his left hand.

Min closed his eyes and sighed as he opened his mouth to allow Young Jae's seeking tongue. The soft teasing exploration left him breathless and clinging to Young Jae's upper arms. He buried his face into Young Jae's shoulder when they broke the kiss, his heart racing a mile a minute.

"You need to keep calm." Young Jae stroked Min's hair back, a soft caress, with his right hand. "Things are only going to get worse from here."

"I suppose you think kissing me is the way to make me calm." Min tried to step back but Young Jae refused to let him go.

"I kiss you because you annoy me so much. I find it's the best way to shut you up." Young Jae tightened his hold, giving him a tight hug. "You're doing fine, Min."

"Let go," Min said quietly.

He did not want the heat in Young Jae's hug. He wanted to cling to the warmth he found in Shin's arms instead of this smoldering fire raging between him and Young Jae.

"We shouldn't be doing this."

"There is nothing stopping us." Young Jae ran his hand over Min's back. "There is no one stopping us.

Min pushed against Young Jae's chest. He took a step back when Young Jae let go of him.

"Don't touch me," Min said, keeping his tone hard. "I don't like it."

"Who are you lying to, me or you?" Young Jae chuckled. "Your face is flushed, your cock filling from arousal, and your lips are swollen."

Min glared at him for a moment before he stalked out of the dining room and headed straight for the bathroom to wash his face.

***

Young Jae chuckled when Min hurried out of the dining room. It was fun getting a rise out of Min. He loved how Min's eyes flashed at him with anger. He couldn't help imagining the thrilling sight of watching Min's eyes burn with passion. He turned to look at the newspaper Min had left at the table. His thoughts lingered on Min's mother and her recent campaign against Hanje Group.

The opposition against Min was immense. Min's uncle was inciting the factory workers. Young Jae was sure Yul was responsible for the warehouse fire, but he didn't have proof. As for the board members, Young Jae frowned.

Yul was actively lobbying against Min. Five of the ten board members wanted Min removed.

Min was keeping it together but barely.

_Time to pick a side_ , Young Jae thought, as he picked up the newspaper.

***

" _Omma_!" Min said. ( _Mom_ )

Min tried to keep his tone as calm as possible.

"Can't you stop making trouble for Hanje Group? I'll give you whatever you want. Tell me what you're after."

"If you came to push your father's agenda, you better leave, Min." Yuna sat back in her armchair and took up a regal stance. "I thought you came to see your mother."

Min sighed, fighting off irritation hoping a calm demeanor would reach his mother.

Yuna kept up a slim figure, and thanks to a few visits to her plastic surgeon, she could pass for late thirties instead of the late fifties she was. She was always in designer clothes. He had never seen her dressed casually.

She separated from his father when he turned ten. She left for New York and had not returned until his eighteenth birthday. She had returned to South Korea with a daughter six years his junior.

Yuna had spent that first year back trying to talk to Min. Six years later, and they still had not found common ground.

Min simply did not know what to say to his mother.

Yuna broke the silence first.

"Your sister needs a date for the gala tonight. Will you do it?"

"You mean that crazy girl and me," Min blurted out.

Min shuddered at the thought of the brat Yuna liked to call his little sister. Technically, Lara was his half-sister. Yuna had left Lara's father in New York and insisted on giving Lara the Jun name. Min's father had not protested, but he had insisted that Yuna and Lara live on their own.

Min tried to stay away from Lara too. As far as he was concerned, Lara was a she-devil disguised as an eighteen-year-old.

"No way," Min said.

He had too much to handle. A night out with Lara would send him off the edge.

"Min, she's your sister." Yuna insisted. "You should help her enter your social circle. Introduce her to Shin, Jihu and Kaori."

"They are abroad," Min said, glad his friends weren't in Seoul for the first time since they had flown out.

"Min," Yuna said. "Please try and get Lara into your social circle."

"I won't do it." Min shook his head hating the thought of letting Lara lose on unsuspecting people. "You're being unfair. You want something from me, but you can't promise to let go of the spotlight. It must mean you're eager to expose Lara's reputation to the circus you're running."

He picked up the newspaper on the coffee table and held it out to her.

"My name is printed beside yours every five sentences in this article. Is that the life you want for Lara?"

"You're just like your father." Yuna accused. "Is this how he taught you to treat your elders?"

" _Omma_ ," Min said in irritation. "Why do you do this? If you don't want to listen to me, don't get involved with Hanje business. I have to go...I have an appointment in minutes."

"You don't even have time for your mother." Yuna shook her head in disappointment. "What's wrong with my name appearing beside yours? I'm your mother, Min."

"You're making life difficult for me." Min stood up and adjusted his suit jacket. It was obvious they weren't going to reach an agreement. "I'm begging you, please, stop giving interviews to anyone who'll talk to you. As for Lara, she can show up at the gala alone. She doesn't need a date, she has the name."

He gave Yuna the bow of respect she was craving and turned to leave the living room. This was why he hated dealing with issues to do with his parents. The lines blurred. He always ended up having to choose a side.

" _Oppa,_ " Lara called just as he reached the door. ( _Big brother_ )

Min froze, a grimace twisting his face for a moment, before he turned to look at her. Lara stood at the top of the stairs with a wide smile. She was dressed for tennis, her long hair in a ponytail.

"Were you leaving without saying hello to me?"

She rushed to the bottom of the stairs and wrapped him in a tight hug. She stepped back with a happy giggle.

"You're so busy. Come play tennis with me."

"I'm sorry. I need to go."

"You always say that." She pouted. "Did you fight with _Omma_?"

"Lara, please, I have an important appointment. I don't want to disappoint this man."

"I see. I guess its fine to disappoint me," she said, tears filling her eyes. "I thought we're family. I know I'm just your half-sister but, don't you think of me as your _dongsaeng_?" _(Little sister)_

"You see the way you're acting right now?" Min pointed to the tears and the pout. "I don't have time for your antics, Lara. I'm leaving, see you."

" _Oppa,_ " Lara called as he escaped out of the house and into the waiting car in the parking lot.

Young Jae gave him an in inquiring glance as he settled in his seat.

"She won't do it. I told you she won't stop."

"We'll see what happens at the gala." Young Jae decided.

"I'm not going to the gala. Lara will be there." Min shuddered at the thought. "I can't go through a party with her."

"Lara is a sweet girl," Young Jae said in a gentle tone. His defense of Lara surprised Min. "What did she ever do to you?"

"She's manipulative and full of theatrical antics. There's nothing 'sweet' in Lara." Min shook his head. His mother had spoiled the girl rotten.

"If you gave her the time of day, you'd find out she's just lonely like you. She's more than a manipulative brat." Young Jae pointed out as the car turned into traffic. "Take it from a person who knows."

"What do you mean?" Min turned to Young Jae confused.

"You were a spoiled brat as far as I was concerned a couple of weeks ago. I couldn't stand the sight of you." Young Jae confessed with a slight smile. "Look at me now."

***

Chapter Five

Min pulled into the parking lot at the Han River Park and got out of the car. It was eleven o'clock so the park wasn't crowded yet. He strolled along the paved path, his hands deep in his pockets. The musical fountain was on, water jetted up into the air, in synchronized sprays. The wind ruffled his hair, he sighed as drops of cold water wet his face. He stopped and stared at the rising fountain.

When he had been ten, his father had brought him to the park every weekend and they had spent hours running through the water. He smiled at the memory. If he tried it now and someone caught him on camera, it would be on the news in minutes with a judgmental caption to go with the picture.

His meeting with Mr. Rio had left him unsettled.

Mr. Rio's support was crucial, but—

Mr. Rio's words rang through his head.

" _Stop your mother's negative interviews and I will support you, Jun Min Ho. If you can't stop her, I don't think you're fit to take the position your father is so willing to give you. You see, son, being Chairman of Hanje Group is not just work. It's also family politics. Can you handle it, Jun Min Ho? If you can't, you have no business trying."_

Min did not know if he could stop his mother. Yuna was an enigma to him.

After the meeting ended, Min had left Young Jae getting Mr. Rio to sign documents for the warehouse that had burned. He had taken the car from the driver and taken off feeling suffocated by all the responsibility.

He wanted to call Shin. Getting his cell phone, he dialed Shin's number. It rang six times before it went to voicemail.

Min ended he call because he did not want to leave a message. He tried calling Jihu next with the same results. Kaori answered but she did not have time to talk.

"I'm sorry, Min. I'm in the middle of something important." She apologized in a soft tone. "I'll call you later, okay? We can talk then."

"That's alright, Kaori," he assured her.

Min let her go and stuck the phone into his pocket. His friends were busy with their lives. He had expected that would happen.

"I thought you might be here," Young Jae said, coming to stand beside him.

Min closed his eyes in defeat. He had hoped for a few more minutes before Young Jae caught up with him.

"How did you know where to find me?" Min asked, opening his eyes to watch the fountain scatter water in synchronized sprays on the ground.

"I've had practice." Young Jae breathed in the cool air. "I always find you here when you're worrying about something and can't find Shin. The driver was very worried when you drove off. He came to get me."

"I just wanted a few minutes away."

Min kept his gaze on the fountain. He couldn't stop thinking about the water. He sat down on a stone ledge behind him and allowed a long sigh to escape.

"What did Mr. Rio tell you?" Young Jae asked, sitting beside him.

Min looked at Young Jae.

"I need to control my mother to earn his support. I don't know if I can do it."

"Mr. Rio is key, Min. His decisions sway the board ninety-percent of the time. We need him on your side."

"Why should controlling my mother be important?" Min shook his head. "She's not involved with Hanje Group."

"Your parents might be separated, Min, but they are not divorced. Whatever she does will always affect the public view of Hanje Group. You must understand that."

"What am I supposed to do?" Min looked at Young Jae. "What would you do?"

"Make peace with Yuna." Young Jae met his gaze and his lips curved into a smile. "She's your mom, Min. Reach out to her maternal instincts."

"She left me when I was ten years old."

Min shook his head, trying to ignore the sting of abandonment. He hadn't understood why his mother left. Why had it been so easy for her to leave him?

"I was angry when she left. Dad wouldn't say anything about it. He brought in a nanny and a tutor. That was his extent of parenting. She abandoned me, Young Jae."

"I'm sure she had her reasons," Young Jae said. "My question is this, what does Hanje Group mean to you? Is it worth the trouble you're facing? Is your father's company worth you forgiving your mother?"

Min stared at the dancing water sprays, his thoughts returning to running around in the water park when he was little. The carefree boy he had been those days didn't exist anymore. Responsibilities filled his life now; he couldn't remember carefree.

"Dad used to bring me here when I was a kid. We spent the whole afternoon just running around in the water. It was so much fun. I miss that."

After a moment of silence, Young Jae stood up abruptly. Min frowned when Young Jae took his hand, pulled him up and led him to the fountain.

"What are you doing?" Min asked, as they got closer to the splashing water. "Have you gone mad?"

"You know you want to, Min," Young Jae said with a wide smile before he pushed Min into the spraying water.

Min gasped as drops of cold water hit him on the face and soaked his gray suit. He wiped his hand down his face and glared at Young Jae. It didn't last long as a new set of sprays came at him.

Min was drenched in minutes. A chuckle escaped and he stopped in the middle of the fountain, water raining down on him. He held out both hands to the spray of water and smiled at Young Jae when the water sprayed out in a series of dances. He laughed when a nozzle splashed water into his face unexpectedly.

He stopped in the middle of the fountain and while the water fell around him, he suddenly realized why he was so tired. He had been spending all his time working so hard to get control of the different companies under Hanje because he didn't trust anyone.

_That's too much work,_ he thought.

Instead, he should have worked at gaining his employees' trust. He needed to find a way to get the company heads to trust him.

Min closed his eyes.

As for his mother..., one thing was disturbing him.

Why would she talk to striking workers when she didn't work with Hanje Group? Why take the risk of pulling herself into a scandal?

Cold water splashed into his face and he blinked. His gaze fell on Young Jae who stood at a safe distance watching him. His thoughts centered on his Uncle Yul and the reason his father had put him in the crosshairs in the first place.

Control your family.

Mr. Rio had insisted on that.

His mother was the key, Min thought with a sigh. He needed to connect with her before she sold him out to his uncle.

"Family politics," he murmured. He stepped out of the water fountain and wiped a hand down his face. "Young Jae, I want to meet Uncle Yul."

"No." The protest was abrupt. Young Jae cursed under his breath and tried again. "I mean, why do you want to go see Mr. Yul?"

"Don't you think it's time we met face to face? He keeps making trouble for me." Min narrowed his gaze. "I think he's inciting my mother, promising her something."

"Min," Young Jae said. "First talk to your mother."

"I will, but I need to talk to my uncle too. This has to stop." Min smiled at Young Jae. "You're right, you know. Hanje Group is important to me. So, if I'm reconciling with my mother, this ridiculous crusade my uncle is running has to be challenged as well."

"Mr. Yul is not Mr. Rio or your father, Min. He is stubborn and set in his ways—"

"I can handle it," Min said with confidence. "I can face him. I'm strong enough, Young Jae."

Young Jae gave him a skeptical look.

Min frowned when he noticed that there was softness in Young Jae's eyes. It had not been there before, or if it had, he had never noticed. A breeze ruffled Young Jae's hair and a lock of it fell over Young Jae's right eye. Min reached up and swept it back gently. Young Jae smiled and Min jerked his hand away in surprise.

"I'm sorry."

"Don't be," Young Jae said. "Come on; let's get you something new to wear. I think you should talk to your mother again. You need to take your sister to the gala, and show a united front to everyone. Tomorrow morning, we can set up a meeting with your uncle."

"Are you coming to the gala?" Min asked.

Young Jae met his gaze and held it for a moment before he nodded.

"I'll be right beside you."

Min smiled happy with the answer. He had no idea when it started but having Young Jae beside him was a comfort.

"Well, look at me now. I'm absolutely wet."

"You're happier for it," Young Jae pointed out with a laugh. "You should try it more often."

"Can you imagine the headlines?" Min looked around almost expecting a reporter standing a few feet away with a camera. "I'm half terrified of tomorrow morning's headlines, _'Hanje Group's Jun Min Ho, acting like a child in the park_.'"

"It would start a trend." Young Jae countered. "We'd find more people in the park at ten o'clock in the morning trying to look as carefree as you did a moment ago."

Min laughed and headed toward the car.

"You're funny."

"It's true." Young Jae followed him. "You looked really handsome running around in the water. I have never seen you smile that hard unless you were with Shin."

"Why do you always say Shin's name that way?" Min pulled open the driver's side door but Young Jae took the keys from him. Min went around to the passenger side and got in. "Why don't you like my friends?"

Young Jae started the car and gave Min a short glance before he pulled out of the parking lot.

"I like them just fine."

Min shook his head in denial.

"You picked a fight with Shin every time you saw him. Why?"

Young Jae joined traffic.

"Well, Shin did piss me off a lot. Nothing against him, he just had what I wanted."

"What is that?" Min asked, curious.

He couldn't imagine what Shin had that Young Jae wanted.

"He had you." Young Jae turned into the shopping district. "Now you know."

Min stared at him at a loss, but then again, he wasn't surprised. He thought about their kiss that morning and smiled.

"You're so complicated, Young Jae. If you'd been a bit nicer to me, I'd have known you liked me sooner."

Young Jae spared him a glance before he pulled over, parking the car on the side of the road. The car secure, he turned to Min.

"What would you have done about it, Min? I'm not Shin who owns his own company. I work for you and your father. I don't have the stellar backgrounds that your friends do. I was born to a very poor family. My mother is not refined like yours—"

Min leaned forward and pressed his lips against Young Jae's to shut him up. If Young Jae could do it to him, he could use kisses as a shut-up tool too. He closed his eyes when Young Jae moaned and sunk gentle fingers into his hair. They broke the kiss a moment later for air.

"I don't know what it is about kissing you. I can't stop thinking about it." Min complained when Young Jae dusted kisses along Min's jaw to his right ear.

"Is it a bad thing to think about my kisses?" Young Jae asked. "It drove me nuts every time I caught you kissing Shin in the corner. Why can't you two keep your hands off each other? I thought you broke up ages ago."

Min chuckled.

"Are you the jealous type? Shin is a friend."

Young Jae pulled back, his hands on Min's upper arms. Dark eyes blazing hot with need captured Min's gaze.

"If he comes back, Min, I'm going to kill him if he tries holding you like this."

Min blinked.

"What do you mean?"

"I'm laying my claim on you." Young Jae shook him gently. "No more kissing Shin. If you want comfort, kisses, hugs, whatever you feel you need Shin for, come to me, Min. I'm strong enough for both of us."

Young Jae pulled him into a tight hug, not caring that his clothes were getting wet from Min's soaked suit. Min closed his eyes when his heart started an impossible fast beat. He clung to Young Jae's shoulders. The tinted windows on the black Mercedes protected them from prying eyes.

Min sighed as tension he had been carrying around for days faded away.

***

Chapter Six

"Twice in one day, Jun Min Ho," Yuna said her eyes wide with mock surprise. "Are you back to complain some more? Wait, I know. You're here to make Lara cry again. She refused to go out."

Min sighed.

"I need to talk to you."

Yuna stared at him for a moment before she shook her head and walked away from him. He stood in her living room confused when she went out into the hallway. He had never gone beyond the living room in this house.

"Are you coming?" Yuna called in the hallway. "I have to make lunch for Lara."

Min followed her. He paused in the hallway when he saw Young Jae sitting at a small table typing away on his laptop. He had never realized that Young Jae actually waited for him in the house. Young Jae glanced up and winked at him.

Min smiled, remembering their kiss in the car.

Young Jae frowned and urged him to follow his mother with a small nod toward the end of the hallway.

The door at the end of the hallway led him into a large spacious kitchen. Yuna stood at a counter cutting up bananas.

"You've never been in this kitchen before," Yuna said.

Min looked around the room. It was large and spacious but it had warmth in it, unlike the kitchen at Jun House. Warm colorful flowers in a blue vase sat on the kitchen table in the middle of the room. Min pulled out a seat and sat down, reaching to feel the texture of one daisy.

"Lara bought those yesterday."

Min glanced up to find his mother watching him. She smiled and finished cutting up the bananas. She went to wash her hands at the sink and turned to him wiping her hands on a towel.

"Min, are you hungry? I can make you something to eat," she offered shyly. "I'm not as talented as the chef at Jun house but—"

"I'd love some lunch," Min said.

"Great, we have some cold cuts from last night." She hurried to the fridge and removed a plastic container. "You changed your clothes. Are you going somewhere?"

Min glanced down at his black t-shirt, pants and white blazer. He smiled at the thought of shopping with Young Jae.

"No, something came up. _Omma_ , can I ask you something?"

"Sure," Yuna replied.

"Why are you talking to the striking workers?" he asked.

Yuna dropped the knife she was holding on the counter.

"Can we not talk about Hanje Group for two minutes? I'd love it if you just sat there and acted like my son for a while instead of your father's son."

"I'm both, and you know it. I'm only asking because I want to help you and Lara. Can't you just answer my question?"

Yuna turned to look at him for a moment before she picked up her knife and continued making sandwiches.

"I want to help them."

"How," Min asked confused. "Hanje Group controls the factory. You'd have to talk to me to help them. Why haven't you?"

"I figured you would come to me." Yuna looked at him with a shrug. "I was right, here you are."

" _Omma_ , please tell me the truth. You wouldn't care about those workers if you didn't think something was coming out of it." Min sat back in his chair to study his mother. "Did you talk to Uncle Yul?"

"Your uncle visits us all the time." Yuna placed the sandwiches she was making on a plate and put the fruits in a bowl. "Do you want some coffee or juice?"

"Coffee is good. Um..., if you don't mind, can you give some sandwiches to Young Jae? He's not had anything all morning either."

Yuna glanced at him in surprise but he ignored her raised brow.

"Sure. Why are you asking about your uncle?"

Min should have known that Yul would visit his mother on a regular basis.

"What has he promised you?" The question spilled out before he could stop it.

Yuna glared at him and she would have started yelling if Young Jae did not choose that exact moment to knock on the door and walk in.

"I was hoping to disturb you for a cup of coffee, Ms. Yuna," Young Jae said with a smile. "It's been a long day, and I haven't had much to eat."

Yuna huffed and turned to Young Jae returning his smile.

"I was just about to come get you, Young Jae. Have a seat while I make you a plate. While you're here, talk to Min. Tell him that he has to learn how to talk to his mother. She would prefer to know more about him instead of talk business all the time."

Yuna headed to the counter.

Min rolled his eyes and gave Young Jae a frustrated glance. It wasn't his fault that his mother lost her mind every time he talked to her. Young Jae reached under the table and squeezed his knee gently.

"Min is like that." Young Jae ignored Min's annoyed glance and focused on Yuna. "He worries a lot about things, so he focuses on the problems. Did you know he likes going to the musical fountain at the Han River Park? We just came from there. He got wet standing in the water, that's why he changed clothes."

"Young Jae," Min gasped in shock. "That was private."

"She's your mother," Young Jae said. "You should have seen him. He looked like a drowned cat."

"I'm no drowned cat." Min protested reaching out to poke Young Jae's right shoulder. "Don't listen to him; he's the one who pushed me in."

Yuna laughed and Min glanced at her puzzled.

"Why are you laughing?"

"I've never seen this side of you." Yuna smiled picking up the plates on the counter. She placed one before Min and the other for Young Jae. "Young Jae, tell me more interesting things about our Min. He doesn't open up often."

Min frowned as Young Jae turned to Yuna.

"He loves eating _japchae. (Korean stir-fry)_ He's always pestering the chef in the kitchen to make it for dinner. When he's bored, he can be such a pain. He'll do anything to get away from his security. A couple of months ago, he escaped them to go play with his friends just like a kid. I was very angry with him."

"Shin, Jihu and Kaori," Yuna said, as she gave Young Jae his coffee. "I've only met them once. It was during his eighteenth birthday."

"Yes," Young Jae agreed. "They have gone abroad for a year. Our Min is a bit sad about that."

"I'm sitting right here." Min glared at Young Jae. "I'm not a kid."

"You act like one sometimes." Young Jae flashed him a smile, "Although, he's surprisingly mature at times. Today, he impressed Mr. Rio enough for the man to promise his support."

"Mr. Rio is tough." Yuna looked at Min, her eyes glowing with pride. "I'm glad our Min was able to win his trust."

Min gaped in shock at the expression on his mother's face. He had never seen it before. It was even more surprising when she reached over and caressed his jaw gently.

Yuna smiled and turned to Young Jae.

"When our Min was a kid, he used to get bullied by his cousins. He would run to me crying because his older cousins were messing with him." Yuna sighed. "I taught him to stand up to them. He was such a strong kid."

Min frowned. He actually remembered that. Yul's son, the one Yul wanted to make the C.E.O. had bullied Min during family get-togethers. Yuna had gotten a hold of him once and threatened him with putting ants in his bed when he was sleeping.

Min laughed at the memory.

"I see you remember the ants." Yuna smiled and shook her head. "Yul's son is scared of insects. Our Min is stronger than that little twat."

"If that is so, then help Min," Young Jae said quietly. "The opposition being built up by Yul is damaging Min's reputation. He needs your backing. Help him stand up to his uncle's bullying."

"Yul has always been like that. He always wants to be better than his brother, Kang. He's never been happy that Min's father became a politician. Yul wants the respect but he doesn't know how to get it." Yuna leaned forward to look at Young Jae. "He has a tendency to abuse relationships. He burns bridges and blackmails people to get what he wants."

Min's gaze narrowed when Young Jae looked down at the table. For a moment, he could swear he saw guilt in Young Jae's eyes.

"Yul is not a good man," Young Jae murmured.

"You're right. Min," Yuna said, turning to look at him. "I have things I need to explain to you. Things you've probably wondered about for a long time."

Young Jae pushed his chair back and stood up.

"I'll go back to my work. Ms. Yuna, thank you for the coffee and the sandwiches."

"You're welcome." She waited for Young Jae to leave before she turned to look at Min. "I didn't know what you were facing."

"That is very hard to believe." Min pushed his coffee away but Yuna frowned. "What is it?"

"Finish your food, son." She pointed to his full plate. "I'll tell you why I left while you eat."

Min picked up a sandwich and took a bite. She got up and refreshed his coffee before she took a seat and sighed.

"Your father and I have had our differences, but I want you to know that I'll always love you, Min."

Min sipped his coffee to keep calm.

"Then, why did you leave?" Min asked, when he felt steady enough.

"I got married to your father when I was very young. There were things I wanted to do, but couldn't while I played the role of the Hanje Group wife. My life wasn't very easy. I wanted freedom. I wanted a career. So, I decided it was better to leave."

"Why didn't you take me with you?"

"You're the first born, Min. Your position in this world was decided long before you were born." Yuna shook her head in disappointment. "I tried to change that but I lost my battle. Your father wouldn't let you go, and the extended family backed him up."

"You could have written to me, called me, come to visit me." Min pointed out unable to understand why his mother would refuse to see him for eight years. Eight long years without a mother, he sighed. "I don't think I'll ever understand how you can leave your son behind."

"I know it's hard for you to forgive me, but will you try, Min?" Yuna asked. She reached out to touch his hand gently. "Please, Min. For your sister's sake, she wants to know you."

Min looked at her thinking he'd like to know what it felt like to have a mother.

"I can try but I'm not promising anything."

Yuna nodded.

"I understand. I'll win your trust, Min. I'll start with telling you why I talked to the workers. Yul is blackmailing me. He wants to tell everyone that Lara is not your father's daughter. While that is true, the damage it would do to her standing in our social circle..."

She sighed.

"I have to protect Lara. Your father won't bother with us, but we're part of the Jun family, whether he likes it or not."

"Why didn't you call me?" Min asked.

"I didn't think you'd listen to me." She sat back in her seat her gaze soft, she studied him. "You're angry with me and you've refused to talk to Lara. I didn't know what else to do. I gave Yul what he wanted hoping that you'll come see me."

Min sipped his coffee thoughtfully.

"Lara is at Hanje University?"

"Yes. Your father got her in. He is covering the costs for her business degree." Yuna gave him a small smile. "I didn't think he would, considering she's not his."

Min nodded.

"I'll protect Lara."

"Are you serious?" Yuna asked, her eyes lighting up. "You'll get her into your circle of friends?"

"The circle is currently not in town, but I'll deal with it." Min promised.

Yuna stood up and came to hug him. A cloud of sweet flower scents filled his nostrils as she held him tight.

"I knew I could count on you."

" _Omma,_ " he protested until she let him go. Yuna was grinning widely. "You still have to do something for me."

"I'll retract my statements. I'll do whatever you want me to, Min," she declared, excited. "I'll even help you. Yul is coming to the gala tonight. We can get him to admit what he's doing in front of everyone."

"That's dangerous," Min said, shaking his head. "You can't call him out like that. It's too dangerous."

"I don't see another way. I will not step aside and wait for him to bully my son." Yuna smiled at him. "You'll always have me on your side, you know that, right?"

***

Young Jae adjusted his black tuxedo jacket and paced the length of the foyer. His hair combed back neatly; he reached up to touch his bowtie. He had no idea why he was so nervous. This was just another gala. He had gone to a million of them. He breathed out nerves and turned to pace back. He stopped when he found Lara standing in his way.

She was looking up at him with narrowed eyes.

"Why are you nervous?" Lara asked.

"I'm not nervous."

Young Jae turned to keep pacing but she walked around.

She pressed a finger on his chest. She looked beautiful in a long sparkling grey dress. The fabric clung to her figure, skating down to her feet in a graceful fall. Her hair was pinned in intricate curls on top of her head. It looked like she had woven some silver glittering thread into the dark glossy curls.

"Is it because you're taking Min-o _ppa_ out tonight?" Lara asked, her strawberry coated lips curved into a smile. "Shouldn't you be excited? You've been waiting for this forever."

"What are you talking about you kid?" Young Jae frowned at her. "You're the one who should be excited. You're about to officially enter the city's elite society. It's not all the roses it's cracked up to be."

"I'm getting to spend an entire evening in o _ppa's_ company. That is all that matters. I think you feel the same way." Lara shrugged her slender shoulder. "You like him, don't you?"

"So what if I like him?" Young Jae glared at her.

She laughed.

"I don't think I deserve that scowl from you, Young Jae-o _ppa_. I've supported you every time. Are you sure you can handle the stress? Min- _oppa_ is a bit high maintenance."

"He's Min." Young Jae turned to keep pacing.

Min was the reason why this gala was so difficult.

Young Jae had thought about Min's uncle Yul all afternoon, and he couldn't find another way out.

Min needed to protect his interests, which meant making major compromises. Young Jae turned to look at Lara. Her presence at Jun House was enough statement of Min's dedication.

Min wanted to protect Hanje Group, so he had made up with his mother and was even making an effort with his half-sister, Lara.

Assemblyman Kang had put his trust in Min for a reason. Kang Jun's main goal was to reduce the pressure on his political ambitions.

Yuna wanted a closer relationship with her children. Her tactics might be hurtful, but she was doing what she could to accomplish her goal.

Everyone around him was protecting what mattered.

Young Jae sighed deciding it was time he did the same.

"Young Jae-o _ppa_ ," Lara touched his elbow.

Young Jae followed Lara's gaze to find Min walking down the stairs. He took in a deep breath and stared.

Min looked gorgeous tonight in a white shirt, white suit jacket with black lapels and black pants. His hair combed back neatly showed off Min's handsome face. Min adjusted his cuffs, as he walked down, the light sparkling off a small silver earring on his left ear.

Young Jae smiled. It looked as though Min was getting ready for battle. He only put on jewelry to disarm people.

"He looks handsome," Lara said beside him. "Be sure to tell him."

Young Jae scowled at her as she went to meet Min.

"Lara, you look lovely." Min greeted his half-sister. "Are you ready for tonight?"

"I've been waiting forever." Lara turned to look at Young Jae and winked. "Don't you think Young Jae-o _ppa_ looks great tonight?"

Min glanced at Young Jae, stopping in his tracks. It was hard not to appreciate that hot gaze giving him a slow thorough perusal. He waited until their gazes collided to smile at Min.

Min blushed and looked away with a small cough.

"Of course he does," Min said.

"You look handsome too." Young Jae complimented with a satisfied smile.

"Where is mother?" Min asked Lara.

"She's already at the venue." Lara clutched Min's right arm. "She said the young people should arrive together."

Min turned to him.

"If you're ready, we can go."

Young Jae nodded and was about to start for the door when Lara pulled away from Min.

"Give me a moment. I'll just get my purse."

She looked at Young Jae discretely and winked.

The little wicked romantic, Young Jae sighed at her antics as she hurried away determined to give them privacy.

"That girl," Min turned to him. "My mother wants to confront Yul tonight. I told her not to, but she seems to have a mind of her own. It's quite inconvenient."

Young Jae chuckled at the comment. It was so typical of Min.

"Humans tend to think for themselves, Min."

Min shrugged.

"It doesn't mean it's good for them."

Young Jae closed the distance between them. He placed a hand on Min's jaw, caressing him gently before he sighed.

"Min, I have something I need to do tonight."

"What is it?" Min asked, looking up to meet his gaze.

Young Jae stared into the trusting dark eyes. He drank in the interest, the heat, the budding love he could see in there. He leaned down and pressed a soft kiss on Min's jaw.

"Whatever happens tonight, I need you to know something." Young Jae let his hand drop to Min's shoulder and took in a deep breath. He let it out slow and smiled. "You're the best part of Hanje Group, Min."

"What's wrong, Young Jae?" Min asked with a frown. "Is there a problem?"

Young Jae shook his head and pulled him into a tight hug.

"No, I've taken care of it. Promise to have fun tonight. You deserve it."

Min's arms went around him slowly before he nodded.

"I promise," Min promised.

***

Chapter Seven

Min paused for a minute right outside the ballroom when they got to the hotel. He turned to look at Lara and smiled. She was nervous. She kept clenching her free hand and shaking her fingers out. She breathed out nervous energy and he bit his lip to keep from laughing.

Young Jae was right.

He had judged Lara too harshly.

_Young Jae is always right_ , Min thought.

He placed steadying hands on Lara's slender shoulders. He met her dark gaze and gave her the best smile he had.

"Don't lower your head for anyone. They should give you the respect. You have every right to be here." Min waited for her to nod in agreement before he squeezed her shoulders. "The answer to any insipid questions from the elders is always, ' _Yes, you're right_.' I'm done with my pep talk. The rest is sink or swim. You'll do fine, Lara."

"You're such a winning character." Lara placed her hand on his elbow and shivered slightly. "Do you ever get used to it?"

"I got indifferent." Min confessed meeting her anxious gaze. "Don't worry, Lara. Once we walk in together, whatever wagging tongues you're afraid of will be chasing after you."

"Easy for you to say," Lara said, as he led the way to the door. "What would you do if I turned and ran right now?"

"Send Young Jae to find you and take you home," Min answered with a shrug.

"You're so practical." Lara chuckled.

That was the picture the guests saw when they walked in.

Min walked with confidence, his half-sister graceful and beautiful beside him. There was no mistaking that she was family. She clung to his arm tightly as they walked in. Yuna met them once they were inside.

"I have to get a picture, you two look great." Yuna exclaimed with cultured enthusiasm. "Mingle, Min, make sure you bid on the items displayed on the stands. We're going to need support if we're fighting Yul. He's been lobbying around, hoping to get support to vote you out. I'm ready to throw him out of the building."

Min sighed, Lara fidgeted, and he glanced at her. Her gaze fixed on a group of young women who stood in a loose circle a few feet away. He narrowed his eyes at the looks they were giving her.

" _Omma_ , if you'll excuse me for a moment. I have something to take care of." He gave his mother a short bow and patted Lara's hand. "Why don't you introduce me to your friends?"

"They aren't my friends." Lara's tone was cold, hiding anger. She shook her head when he started to lead them toward the curious women. "Please, Min. I don't want to talk to them."

"Come on now, it would be rude if the Jun family didn't welcome all our guests." Min led her firmly to the loose circle, a charming smile pasted on his lips. "Good evening ladies, I hope you're enjoying yourselves."

"Mr. Jun," one of them, a skinny model type with brown hair, said. "How are you? And where did you get her?"

Her tone was condescending as she nodded at Lara. Her eyes rolling, sizing up Lara's dress, it was a malicious glance. He squeezed Lara's hand gently.

"She's my sister." He frowned as he looked at the brown haired model. "Who are you again?"

"I'm Ling Saito," she declared with a wide smile. "I work at Hanje Design as a model. We met last year at a fashion show."

"I don't remember." Min looked to the young woman standing beside the model. "What about you?"

She blinked glancing at Ling, clearly nervous about her answer.

"I work with Ling at Hanje Design as well. My name is Nana."

Min raised a brow and turned to smile at Lara.

"I think I might be going senile here. I don't remember them at all. We'll have to talk to the director at Hanje Design and see if they're still on the payroll."

" _Oppa_ ," Lara said, glancing at the girls who were nervously looking at each other. "I'm sure they wouldn't be lying to you. They probably hold smaller positions so you haven't met them."

Min turned to Ling and gave her a warning look.

"I'm sure you're right, Lara. Ladies, this is my _dongsaeng_. Treat her well. She is very good to me. I rely on her to keep me informed. Please, do enjoy the gala. Come on, Lara, I think I need a drink."

They walked away from the group of young women and Lara chuckled under her breath.

"You are so cool."

"They look like trouble. Are you sure you want to be their friend?" Min asked, as they intercepted a waiter. He took two champagne flutes and handed one to Lara. "They'll seek you out."

"I can handle it. I just needed the backing." Lara sipped her champagne and glanced around the room casually. "I know we haven't been close."

She returned her gaze to him and Min read anxiety as she continued.

"I'd really love it if you meant what you said to them."

"I said a lot of things." Min narrowed his gaze. "Which part do you want to know about?"

"The part where you called me your _dongsaeng_ ," Lara said quietly. "I don't care about the status; I just want us to be real siblings."

"We are," Min assured her. He gave her a wide smile. "Be warned, I'll pinch you if you start acting out around me today. I'm very skilled at that."

Lara laughed.

"You can try to pinch me. I don't think it will work. I'm too cute to hurt."

She fluttered her eyes at him and he sighed with an exaggerated roll of his eyes.

"You wish kiddo."

She teased him for a few minutes. They mingled with the guests. Min introduced Lara as his little sister to everyone he talked to. She clung to his right arm. Her hold trusting as they worked the room. He found he liked the funny comments she made every time they moved away from the many people who wanted a word with him. She kept him smiling, which was hard to do.

An hour and a half passed by so fast he was surprised when she led him to the buffet insisting she was hungry.

"I want something sweet," Lara said, as they stood by the buffet table looking over the food. "It all looks so delicious. I might just pile my plate. Wouldn't you like to see that Ling's face at the sight?"

She laughed and he smiled at her comments. She glanced at him and held out a grape to him.

" _Oppa_ , you should smile more. It looks good on you."

Min took the grape and popped into his mouth.

"I've never had a reason to smile at these galas. It's usually so boring, thank you for making it so much fun."

Lara smiled at him and continued getting food. He reached for another grape and chanced a glance at the entrance into the ballroom in time to see Young Jae walk out of the room.

Min frowned when he saw his Uncle Yul follow Young Jae. He turned to Lara.

"Will you be alright alone?" he asked her.

"Go ahead," she nodded to the door. She had obviously seen the same thing he had. "I'll be fine."

Min gave her a grateful smile and hurried out after Young Jae.

***

"Things are not going as planned." Yul paced the small dining room his gaze hard. "You're not doing your part, Young Jae. Min is gaining momentum. He won over Mr. Rio's approval tonight. That's not good."

"I'm out, Yul," Young Jae said.

He stood staring out the windows of the hotel. The dark night below twinkled with streetlights and car headlights.

"I don't care about the stakes anymore."

"You can't back out." Yul's tone was cruel. "I warned you. I still hold the title to your mother's land. Her debts will be called in and she'll be homeless."

"Keep it." Young Jae turned to look at Yul. "I'll pay the debt when I can. I'm not going to betray Min Ho anymore."

"What is this? What is he giving you that you've done an about face? You hated him a month ago." Yul scoffed. "Is he giving it up? We all know he's queer. His type is not fit to run a company."

Young Jae felt hot anger rise up and he glared at Yul.

"Don't ever talk about Jun Min Ho like that. You're not good enough to utter his name. You disgust me. He's your family, but look at you. You're doing your best to give him a hard time."

"He might be my family," Yul said quietly, "but I'm not the one who's betrayed my lover. It makes sense. You're in love with him, aren't you?"

Young Jae sighed and turned away from the despicable man.

"It's none of your business."

"Oh, but it is," Yul said with a sick smile. "If you don't want your affair plastered on the papers tomorrow morning, you'll do exactly as I say."

"Are you blackmailing me?" Young Jae narrowed his gaze at Yul. "I won't let you use me to hurt Min any longer."

"I don't think you have a choice," Yul replied. He rubbed his hands together and moved to take a seat at the dining table. "The board is meeting in two days. They're going to be voting on Min's progress. I want a negative response and you're going to help me get it."

Young Jae was about to speak when he glanced up to find Min standing at the entrance of the dining room.

Yuna and Mr. Rio stood behind Min watching them.

Young Jae's gaze returned to Min and the stab of pain in his chest at the betrayal he read there destroyed him.

"Is this what you've been up to, Yul?" Mr. Rio asked, moving around Min to enter the private dining room. "You're blackmailing and lobbying to get your son on the top seat. Assemblyman Kang was right. You have gone beyond low."

"I wish you'd stop meddling with family affairs," Yul said, his tone dripping with disgust. "I don't care what kind of power you have with the board. My son should be the C.E.O. instead of that light weight standing at the door."

"I think your days with Hanje Group are over." Mr. Rio turned to look at Young Jae. "I'm sorry, son, but yours are too. Min Ho deserves better from a chief assistant."

Yuna moved to place hands on Min's shoulders and Young Jae sighed.

"You're right, Mr. Rio. However, before I leave, I'd like the opportunity to help clear up Mr. Jun Min Ho's reputation. I'll take responsibility for the striking factory workers."

"Young Jae," Yuna gasped her hands gripping Min's stiff shoulders tightly.

"Please, Mr. Rio." Young Jae ignored Yul's scoff and turned to look at Min. "I want to make things right."

"That decision is Min Ho's." Mr. Rio turned to look at Min. "I'm glad you called me when you did. We would have never known there was a problem among us. I promise that the board will make the right decision the day after tomorrow. I'll handle Yul's situation personally."

Min dragged his gaze away from Young Jae and forced a slight smile for Mr. Rio.

"Thank you for helping," Min said.

"Hanje Security will want to talk to Young Jae." Mr. Rio nodded for Yuna to go get the head of security. "Yul, come with me."

Yul followed Mr. Rio out of the private dining room. When he was passing Min, Yul stopped and gave him a hateful look.

"This is not over. The moment you make a mistake, I'll be waiting to pounce. I'll get my son what he deserves."

Min narrowed his gaze and looked at Yul.

"I'll be waiting for your first move. Next time, I won't be blindsided again. I'm a very fast learner, Uncle. I hope you remember that."

Yul sneered and followed Mr. Rio out of the dining room.

Young Jae watched Min stand at the door in shock. Min's eyes turned cold as he closed the door Young Jae had deliberately left open.

"What is going on?" Min demanded the moment he closed the door. "Why were you talking to Uncle Yul?"

"I thought you heard him." Young Jae shrugged. "I've been on his payroll this whole time."

Min shook his head in denial.

"You pushed me to stand up to his bullying. Is this a game, Young Jae? I'm not in the mood right now for one of your weird tests. Were you tricking Yul so that Mr. Rio would find out what he's doing?"

Young Jae stilled his heart against the pain he was feeling at Min's words. The truth was always better and as much as Min was giving him a chance to be free, he couldn't avoid it.

"I was working with Yul. This is no trick. He was blackmailing my family."

"Blackmailing your family?" Min stepped forward to brace his palms on the dining table, as though it would help him make sense of the situation. "What about the fountain, and the kisses, did you do it all to gain my trust?"

"All of it was a sham." Young Jae kept his tone flat. It was better to get this out of the way and leave Min in peace. He would make sure that there were no more problems for Min. "I did it to protect my family, but it's no excuse. You have to let me make a statement to the press."

Min kept his head lowered.

"Stop lying," Min whispered. "You care about me."

"I don't." Young Jae shrugged. "It was all a game, Min. You said it yourself, you don't trust me the way your father does. You were right. I'm bad news. I wanted to take away your position. Let me go."

"If I help your family, will you stop acting like this?" Min asked quietly.

Min raised his head and Young Jae gasped when he saw the glistening dark eyes. Min looked ready to cry, his heart on his sleeve.

Why did he have to make this so hard?

"It won't change anything." Young Jae lowered his gaze unable to look into Min's eyes. "I don't think it will help your situation if I stay. It's time for me to leave Hanje Group. If I don't, Yul is going to have more things to use against you."

"I don't care what Yul does," Min hissed. "I want you to say that you'll stay."

Min's chances with the board were good but Young Jae couldn't risk Yul outing Min to the press. He wanted to protect Min until he was strong enough. Besides, he had allowed Yul to corrupt him; he didn't deserve to be by Min's side.

Young Jae bit his lip to keep the pain at bay and glanced at Min.

"You're just a kid, Min. You have no clue what you want. You're not my type."

Min held on to the table for a moment longer before he straightened up. His gaze hard, he took a step back and adjusted his coat.

"Fine, have it your way. Do what you want with the conference. I don't care what you say."

Min turned to leave and Young Jae drunk in the sight of him greedily. He would have wanted to know how it felt to hold Min through the night. He wished he could see what Min's handsome face looked like in the throes of passion. It hurt that he would never know.

Min reached the door and paused.

For a minute, Young Jae thought that Min might be calling his bluff. He wished Min were really calling his bluff.

It would be so easy to discard the path he was choosing.

Min clung to the door handle and spoke.

"I read once that, 'love has no ethics and it has no teacher'. I never understood what those words meant, until now." Min turned to look at Young Jae. "It hurts to admit it because you don't want me but, I love you, Young Jae."

Min opened the door and left the room without another word.

Young Jae let out a long shaky sigh.

Jun Min Ho, the annoying spoiled rich brat, turned into serious entrepreneur, had just declared he loved him.

"I'm an idiot," he whispered to the empty room.

***

Chapter Eight

Two months later, Lara stepped out of the elevator on the fifteenth floor at the Hanje Group head office. She adjusted the brown bag she carried and hoped Min had not left for a meeting. The office receptionist waved at her with a smile as she headed down the corridor to Min's office.

Two women stood talking.

"Can you imagine Kim Young Jae was responsible for the workers striking at the Hanje shoe factory? He was helping Mr. Yul destroy Chairman Jun Min Ho's business reputation. He confessed it all at a press conference. Who would have imagined that? It's such a shame, I really liked Young Jae."

"Shut up," Lara snapped at the two women.

The both gasped when they saw her.

"Don't you know gossiping is in bad taste?" Lara asked, annoyed. "Find some place else to make up stories."

Lara glared at the two women and kept walking down the hallway to Min's office at the end of the hallway. She pushed her hair back and shook her head at the gossip. She had hoped it would die down, but it seemed to be catching fire with each week.

Min was already struggling with the situation; he did not need an office full of gossipmongers peddling that bogus story.

Lara walked into the executive assistant's office and smiled at the young man behind the desk.

"Is he in?"

"Yes, he's supposed to be going out in a few minutes."

"Thank you."

Lara walked right into Min's office without knocking and was not surprised to find him standing by the windows staring out. She had caught him doing it more times than she cared to count. She hated to see her brother so sad.

Min was missing Young Jae.

Lara pasted on a smile and used her most cheerful tone.

" _Oppa_ , I brought you lunch."

Min turned with a smile that didn't quite reach his eyes.

"Are you running away from your classes again? I told you that you don't need to do this for me."

Lara shrugged and moved to a coffee table to place the lunchbox she had brought with her from home.

"We both know you don't remember to eat lunch. Come and sit. Mom made you _japchae_. She wants to see you later for dinner. Do you think you can make it?"

Min moved to sit on the comfortable armchairs surrounding the coffee table. He looked at the food she laid out on the table and picked up his chopsticks.

"I can't. I'm meeting Shin this evening. He's coming into town today, and will be gone tomorrow afternoon. We're going out to Bar 74."

Lara sat across Min and watched him take a small bite of his Korean noodle stir-fry. He looked tired. There were dark circles under his eyes. He wasn't sleeping well.

"Are you sure you should be out drinking? I think you need to rest."

"Don't nag, Lara. I can take care of myself just fine." He shrugged. "Besides, I miss seeing Shin. We haven't managed to talk while he's been away. I'm glad I have the freedom to go wherever I please now. It will be nice to meet him."

Lara sighed and sat back in her chair watching her brother eat. Min did not look up to see her speculative study. She sighed again and waited to see if he would catch on. When he didn't glance up, she shook her head.

Min was ignoring her.

"Are you really not going to ask what's wrong?" she asked with a frown.

"I'm sure you're going to tell me anyway." He glanced at his watch. "Make it quick, I have to leave in a few minutes."

"Fine, I want you to call Young Jae-o _ppa_. He misses you too, you know. The same way you're missing him and don't bother denying it. You're not sleeping."

Min put his chopsticks down. His expression was carefully blank. She hated seeing it.

"Are you done?" Min asked.

"I'm not done. If you don't call him, I will," she said with a glare.

Min picked up the napkin she had placed beside the bowl of _japchae_ and wiped his mouth. He placed it on the table and smiled at her.

"Thanks for the food, Lara. Be careful going home, and say hi to _Omma_."

Min stood up and walked to the coat hanger where he retrieved his suit jacket. A fitted black jacket that he pulled over his pastel green shirt, he buttoned it and smiled at her.

"I'll see you later."

"Escape all you want, Jun Min Ho. I'll get you to talk about this."

Lara stood up as Min left the office with a short wave and she was left standing alone in his spacious office.

Her gaze fell on the half-full bowl of _japchae_. He really wasn't eating enough. She picked up her handbag, got her cell phone and scrolled through her contacts until she found Young Jae. She smiled and perched on the edge of her seat as she waited for Young Jae to answer.

"Hello." Young Jae's quiet voice reached her after four rings.

"Young Jae-o _ppa_ , will you meet me for a while? I hope you're not too busy."

***

Young Jae looked up when Lara showed up around two o'clock. She looked lovely in fitted jeans and a red top that framed her figure to perfection. Her hair was up in a ponytail and she sat in the chair across him with a wide smile.

"Hi," she greeted happily.

Young Jae couldn't help the smile as he put his book on the table and sat back.

"You look happy, is it because the sun is shining today?"

"I'm enjoying the weather before it changes and its cold." Lara shivered dramatically. He laughed and waved the waiter over so that she could get a drink. "What's good here?"

"Have anything you like," he told her. " _Oppa_ might not have a job with Hanje Group anymore but I can still afford to buy you lunch."

She chuckled and ordered a chocolate pastry and a tall glass of peach juice. When she was done, she returned her attention to him. She treated him to a thorough study on his face.

"You look better than Min." She frowned. "I hope you're not a stubborn as he is."

"Lara," he started to protest but she raised a finger to stop him.

"Don't start. I just had a similar conversation with my brother. He's such a hardheaded idiot. All he knows how to do is work."

Young Jae moved his book to the side. It was so easy to picture a stubborn Min working away in his new office.

_Min,_ Young Jae smiled at the image that filled his mind. He always remembered Min at the musical fountain.

"How is he really doing?"

"How do you think? I'm having a hard time keeping up with him. He's living alone at Jun House. Dad is busy running his political campaigns in Daegu. Mum wants Min to move in with us, but he can't, as you know. I'm worried because he's not taking care of himself."

"He has a house full of servants." Young Jae pointed.

Lara was seriously concerned and her worry was hard to take.

He didn't want to think of Min struggling with anything. It made him want to run to Min.

"He gets difficult when situations don't go as he wants."

"He's not acting up. I haven't seen him smile in two months. Is that even healthy for a human?"

Lara shook her head and paused as the waiter returned with her order. When the waiter left, she sipped her juice and continued.

"Actually, he smiled today. I think it had to do with Shin."

"Shin," Young Jae prompted. The thought of those two back together made him want to curse. "Is he back from Switzerland?"

Lara narrowed her eyes at him before she answered.

"Yes, they are meeting tonight. I think it's more than _Oppa_ is telling me. He was too happy about it."

Young Jae frowned.

"What does that mean?"

"I mean," she lifted her right brow at him. "What do you think? _Oppa_ is a guy who hasn't been with anyone in a while. Shin is back. _Oppa_ is alone at Jun House. I don't think I need to explain further."

Young Jae gritted his teeth at the thought of Min in Shin's arms, tonight, at Jun House where Min was living alone. He shuddered at the thought.

Damn it, he still wanted Jun Min Ho. He couldn't let someone else take what was his.

"Where is he right now?"

"If you mean Shin, he's arriving around seven o'clock. They are supposed to meet at Bar 74. Min looked all wide-eyed about it." Lara smiled at him. "It was kind of nice to see him that way."

Young Jae looked away from her hoping she didn't see the blinding jealousy enveloping him. The thought of Shin touching Min—

Young Jae fisted his fingers. He tried to squelch the image but it was difficult.

"I'm glad he's doing better," Young Jae managed to say.

Lara rolled her eyes at him.

"You don't have to stay away. You can always call and talk to Min. He misses you."

Young Jae shrugged wondering where he was going to find the courage to face Min.

"Why aren't you in school?"

Lara laughed.

"Min asked the same thing. I'm doing a project. I don't need to be in a class until next week. I thought I better try to fix the two of you before _Oppa_ works until he drops."

Young Jae reached for his coffee.

"There is nothing to fix. I walked away and Min is living his life. There's nothing to fix, little girl. Why don't you concentrate on your project instead?"

Lara gave an exaggerated sigh but she talked about her project for a while.

He helped her with a few contacts she needed. An hour later, she stood up ready to leave. She picked up her purse and gave him a sad look.

"Young Jae-o _ppa,_ I know you still care for Min." She glanced around the café and then leaned down so that she whispered into his ear. "Tell him how you feel. He'll forgive you everything. Don't let it end like this."

She pressed a chaste kiss on his jaw and left the café in quick short strides.

***

Shin was late.

Min sat on a stool at Bar 74 nursing a drink. The dimly lit bar suited his mood. He wasn't feeling festive. Hadn't in a very long time, and it was starting to get on his nerves. He sipped his drink and stared at the bar counter.

"I'll have what he's having," a familiar voice said and he glanced up, as usual.

His heart speeding up with hope even though it always hurt when he found it wasn't Young Jae. His gaze settled on the man standing beside him.

"How are you Min?"

Min gasped quietly when his gaze collided with familiar dark eyes.

"Young Jae," he whispered. He cleared his throat and sat up straight on his stool. "What are you doing here?"

"I heard you'd be here." Young Jae slid into the stool next to him and shifted so that they faced each other. He nodded to the glass Min was nursing. "You're getting serious. Is something troubling you?"

Min glanced at his scotch.

"I don't see how that is your problem. I'm here to meet someone."

"If it's Shin, I called him before I got here. He's hasn't landed yet. I told him I'd tell you not to wait."

Min frowned, as he suspected Shin's flight had delayed.

Young Jae would know, as always.

Min hated that he missed Young Jae's thorough ability to manage.

Young Jae had organized every aspect of Min's life to perfection. To the point that Min couldn't make a decision now without thinking what Young Jae would say about it.

Min tossed back his drink and closed his eyes as it burned down his throat. He slid out of the stool but Young Jae stopped him with a firm grip on his left arm.

"Don't leave yet," Young Jae said, his tone rough. "I came here to talk."

"We don't have anything to say to each other." Min tried to extricate his arm from Young Jae's hold but he couldn't. He glared at Young Jae with irritation. "You've perfected the art of torturing me. Why can't you just leave me alone?"

"I can't." Young Jae confessed quietly.

The bar was dim and crowded. No one paid attention to them. Min leaned on the counter his gaze on Young Jae.

"I can't stop thinking about you and your darned confession. I know you're talking to Shin, but I'm prepared to fight for you, Min. Please, just sit down and give me a moment to explain."

"What is there to explain?" Min asked, his eyes flashing with anger. The pain filling his heart made him want to lash out. "You didn't want me. I moved on, end of story."

"Can we talk somewhere private?" Young Jae asked. "Please, Min. Give me fifteen minutes, and if you don't think my explanation is good enough, I'll disappear."

Min winced at the thought of never seeing Young Jae again. He wished he could refuse Young Jae's suggestion. Listening to Young Jae would leave him with no defense, no armor. Still...he felt himself nod in agreement.

Young Jae dropped the money for their drinks on the counter and tugged him out of the bar. They walked through an alley to the front street and Young Jae hailed a cab.

It took more than fifteen minutes to get to Young Jae's modest apartment. Min removed his shoes at the entrance and stopped. He looked around the bright living area, awed by Young Jae's home. It looked like a comfortable place to stay.

It was full of warmth.

Young Jae urged him forward with a hand on his shoulder.

Min walked to the comfortable brown leather couch in the living room and sat. He suddenly realized he had never come to visit Young Jae here.

Young Jae disappeared in what he assumed was the kitchen and returned a few minutes later carrying two mugs of hot coffee. He placed one on the edge of the wooden coffee table for Min and sat on the other end of the couch.

Min took the cup and brought it to his lips. The coffee was good. He put the mug on the table and looked at Young Jae.

"What do you want to tell me?"

"I'm sorry for not staying." Young Jae apologized in a quiet tone. "I was protecting you the only way I knew how. Your vetting process needed you clean and free of any scandals. I did the press conference to take the heat away from you."

"Why didn't you tell me that Yul was blackmailing your family?" Min asked, unable to hide the hurt he had felt at that revelation. "You knew everything about me."

"I didn't think my problems were yours to deal with." Young Jae shrugged. "It came from habit, I wanted to protect—"

"Don't tell me that." Min cut him off. "I'm tired of all the protection you've given me. If you think leaving me alone is fine then we're wasting our time."

Young Jae sighed and moved closer on the couch so that he could place a hand on Min's shoulder.

"I'm sorry, Min. I'm trying to explain the best I can, but it's not coming out the way it should."

"You left me!" Min turned to Young Jae, his eyes full of accusation. "I begged you to trust me that day, but you decided to jump off the cliff alone. I couldn't watch that awful press conference you did. Damn it, you should have trusted me."

Young Jae dropped his gaze to Min's hand on his thigh. He took Min's hand in his, holding on tight.

"Tell me how to fix it," Young Jae begged. "I miss you, Min. I know I won't be back to work for Hanje Group, but that works out better for both of us. I'll have more time to spend with you and—"

Min shook his head.

"You're jumping ahead. We need rules. First, if anyone is hurting you and your mom, let me know. Even though it is someone close to me, let me know, and don't ever let it end like that. It hurt not knowing about your family, Young Jae."

"I promise." Young Jae smiled. "I know what you did for my mother. Thank you for getting her house back. It was very kind of you."

Min nodded and squeezed Young Jae's hand.

"Second, don't leave me again. You have to promise not to leave me. It gets lonely and I—"

Young Jae pulled him into a tight hug. A soft gasp escaped Min as heat spread through him. He took in Young Jae's familiar scent with closed eyes and buried his face into Young Jae's chest. It felt like homecoming.

"I won't leave you again," Young Jae promised. "Any other rules I should know about?"

Min wrapped his arms around Young Jae and held him closer.

"Only one other rule," he said in a shy tone.

"Let's have it," Young Jae urged.

"If I tell you I love you, you're supposed to reply—"

Min never finished his third rule.

Young Jae leaned back to press a kiss on his right eye.

"I'm sorry," Young Jae said.

He pressed another kiss on Min's left eye.

"I love you too. I should have said it that day."

Min's breath hitched and he opened his eyes to look into hopeful dark ones. Young Jae kissed him on his lips. A hungry, desperate kiss that spoke of longing, need and love.

Min was lost in sensation as Young Jae kissed him with fervor. He had missed the sensual feel of Young Jae's tongue stroking and filling his mouth. It made him want to get closer to Young Jae somehow fit his body to Young Jae so that he'd never be alone again.

Young Jae broke their kiss and buried his face in Min's shoulder.

"I missed you," he confessed in a broken whisper.

"I missed you too," Min answered, his voice muffled. His heart slammed against his chest as he clung to Young Jae. "Please don't leave me again."

He couldn't imagine losing this feeling if Young Jae left him again.

"Will you say it again?" Min asked.

Young Jae wrapped his arms around Min and lifted his head slightly. He pressed his lips against Min's right ear and whispered.

"I love you, Jun Min Ho."

***

Epilogue

It was Min's birthday. He was turning twenty-five.

Young Jae held a small black box nervously moving it from one hand to the other. He stood in the foyer at Jun House watching guests arrive.

Lara led Kaori, Jihu and Shin into the foyer. She smiled wide when she saw him waiting anxiously.

"Young Jae-o _ppa_ is nervous tonight. I think this is the first time he's been at this kind of party as a guest instead of the person who planned it all," Lara said to Jihu.

"Young Jae-o _ppa_ ," Jihu looked at her with a questioning eye and she chuckled.

Lara and Jihu seemed to have been hitting it off ever since Jihu returned.

"I thought I was the only one you called oppa?" Jihu asked.

"Keep wishing." Kaori came to stand beside Young Jae. "Where is the birthday boy?"

"He's upstairs getting ready. His father wants to make an official announcement on the board's decision today. Min will make his first official speech as Chairman of Hanje Group." Young Jae explained, looking up to meet Shin's gaze. "He'll be happy to see you guys here. He's really missed you."

"Not so much though," Shin said with a small smile. "He had you, right?"

Young Jae chuckled at the friendship that seemed to have developed between him and Shin. It was still unsettling to see Min be so friendly with the Shin, but Shin wasn't bad.

"He does have me," Young Jae said in answer to Shin's question.

Kaori patted his arm.

"I think you should go rescue birthday boy from himself. He's probably standing in his closet unsure what he wants to wear."

Young Jae shook his head at her accurate assumption. He left the group of friends and headed upstairs eager to see Min.

Min's bedroom was on the second floor.

Young Jae had moved back to Jun House a month ago. It had taken a lot of courage to face Min's father and declare his intentions for Min. The man had taken their relationship quite well considering his political aspirations. There had been some resistance at first, but between him and Min, they convinced Assemblyman Kang.

Kang had praised them for telling him the truth and urged them that it was better to keep things in the light than hidden. Hence, Young Jae was now living in Jun House, where he would remain for the rest of his life or until Min send him away, unlikely as that was.

In Min's bedroom, he frowned and adjusted that thought.

In their bedroom, Min stood by the bed wearing a towel around his hips. It was hard not to stare at the lean gorgeous body. Min was beautiful to look at.

Young Jae couldn't help thinking about Min caught in the throes of passion. His head thrown back, lips parted in a gasp, his eyes closed in ecstasy. Min looked at him at that moment, and Young Jae groaned.

They were definitely going to be late for the party downstairs.

"What?" Min asked.

Young Jae held out the black box he had been carrying around all day.

"I know you'll be receiving loads of gifts downstairs. So, I want you to open my present first."

Min smiled a charming cute smile that drew his gaze to perfect curved lips.

Young Jae kissed them before he released the box to Min.

Min opened the box eagerly. He didn't protest when Young Jae wrapped his arms around his hips and pulled him closer. Instead, his gaze was fixated on the platinum band resting on a bed of blue velvet. Min removed the ring from the box and stared at it. A sparkling diamond in the center of the ring glinted in the light. A soft gasp escaped when the band parted in the middle and there were two rings. One with the stone in the middle, the other without, the stone held the two rings together.

Min met Young Jae's gaze.

Young Jae took the ring with the stone.

"This is my heart. Keep it safe."

Min nodded and held his left hand out for Young Jae to slide the ring on his middle finger. He slid Young Jae's ring on his left middle finger.

"Now, Shin will know to keep his hands off you." Young Jae declared with a satisfied nod.

Min laughed and wound his arms around Young Jae's neck.

"He calls you, t _hat Dog, Young Jae._ "

"I know." Young Jae's hands slid down Min's bare back to the towel, his fingers tangling in the soft white fabric. "I'm glad he knows that I'll turn rabid if he touches you."

He tugged on the towel and it dropped to the floor leaving Min naked.

Min pulled back slightly to look at him.

"Do we have time?" Min asked breathlessly, as his cock filled in anticipation.

Young Jae shifted them toward the bed.

"We can make time. After all you're the boss."

Min laughed and kissed him as they fell back on the bed.

The Beginning...

###

About The Author:

Suilan Lee grew up moving from one city to another. She works with an aide organization, teaching others ways of making their lives better. She loves writing romance stories set in different cities with characters that live ordinary lives and fight for extraordinary love and happiness. She believes in a happy ending and will always work toward making one happen.

Connect on Instagram: Suilan

Visit her blog: Suilan Books

Other Stories

The Assassin

Always You, Only You

Do You Know?

A Rescued Life

A Healing Heart

A Haunted Love

Electric Blue & Catnip

You Make Me...Crazy

Kiss Me to Spring Time

Love (Ai)

Bovian Image

Blu Dream

The Precious Teahouse
