

The Killer Holiday

# Written by

# Richard Street

All Smashwords books are sold DRM-free, without copy protection or encryption. This means you're trusting your customers not to pirate your books. In our experience, the vast majority of customers are honest. Yet without proper education and reminders, a well-intentioned but enthusiastic fan might feel inclined to share your book with someone else.

Copyright 2020 by Richard Street

No elements of this book may be copied unless submitting short quotes for reviews. All rights are reserved to the author.

## Chapter 1

## The plan

The story begins in the summer of 1999, 4 friends go on a trip in the county of Yorkshire in England. A group of friends began to book this trip early in the previous winter. Louise, Trevor, Tommy and Sarah decided one cold evening while deciding on a holiday that they would have a change from the sunny beaches of Spain. They thought it would be a cheap, exciting holiday which they would never forget. One thing is for sure it would be an unforgettable experience for the 4 friends. They planned to go into a little log cabin. The brochure showed that the place would be perfect for a group of friends to relax away from the stress of work. The agreement was that they would all chip in together and all take plenty of spending money to visit the local surroundings. In the brochure it showed that the cabin was set by a nice fishing pond. It had a swimming pool on site with a few restaurants. Plenty of villages nearby to visit and get merry without anyone having to drive back, they could walk from the log cabin site into any of the 5 places on the map nearby. This was to be a fun exciting experience... or so they thought.

When Trevor had first introduced the idea to the other 3 they weren't too sure. Let's be honest, who would swap sun filled beauty spots with a UK holiday? The risk of rain is almost 90% chance all year round. But Trevor introduced the idea as a change to pump money into the British industry of tourism being the patriotic person he is. Sarah was the most sceptic of the idea, she had always been used to spoiling herself on flash items. Louise never made much of a fuss for that kind of thing. For Tommy it was perfect as he could fish to his heart's content, the pond was the biggest selling point for him. 'Let's be honest if all else fails we have the nearby pubs to visit' Trevor joked. The 5 trails which led to a different village from the site was ideal just for that reason. Trevor always laughed about it saying it'll be a short walk there and 4 times the length to get back after the beer. All four of them were saving up to move out into their own places anyway so a cheap holiday made it all that more appealing. Besides they were from the town of Bridlington which filled with tourism all year round. Families in the summer, pensioners in the winter. They were looking forward to a little spot of nothingness and tranquility. They had no idea that the previous year there were a string of murders and that every detective in the country wanted the glory of catching the criminal, but to very little avail. This psycho murderer always seemed to be one step ahead, he never left any trails and very little clues to the terrifying murder that had occurred. This was kept quiet by the locals as they didn't want to lose any visits within the summer. The files of each murder were to be hidden deep within the corrupt police forces files.

As summer was approaching the four were excited as the trip was just around the corner. They had all been talking about it from the word go. Sarah was trying to delight herself to the idea as she was the most uncertain of all. It didn't seem to have the same ring to it as a small Spanish town with shops and bars. She could go for a day on the beach or a day around the pool in the hotel in Spain whereas this place didn't seem to have the same appeal. Slowly but surely as she was talked around the idea began to become exciting for her. She did think to herself that as she was saving to move out of her current establishment, she could spend a little more on the clothing items that they could wear going to the local pubs. Within the brochure it showed all 5 villages, which all had a something different about them. The four friends had been arguing in a friendly manner about which one they would be visiting first that week. They would sit up for hours on a weekend talking about the trip making exciting new ideas for activities whilst there. They would have enough money to live like kings and queens, well, for the week anyway.

All ideas and options wouldn't be an issue as they had a full week to explore. Tommy kept saying about how money was no option, but Trevor cautioned to the wind over not blowing money for the sake of it. He was always the sensible one whereas Tommy seemed to spend his money on practically anything that came into his mind. Louise was the quietist of the group but she was not shy to have a good time amongst the friends. She was just laid back, a more go with the flow attitude. Trevor was the one who had booked the trip he reminded the other 3 that any breakages whilst away would be liable to him and that he would not tolerate childish behavior within the cabin. They all agreed that if anything had been broken all four friends would equally put money in to stop any animosity within the group. Trevor and Tommy worked together in the local factory that made ping meals for the easy option to the buyers. They had nothing but stress day in day out whilst at work. The continuous breaking down of machinery meant that the pair could just let themselves recover from busy life, a chance to really put their feet up and chill by the pond fishing. Danny was the pro at this as Trevor was more into the sport world and running. The trails made this appealing to him.

While they were in the factory day in day out, they talked about the elements of the trip. What they should take and things they should avoid as none of them wanted to damage the local wildlife. Tommy had always kept on about the environment whereas Trevor dismissed the claims as nonsense. He believed it was a way for the government to milk the working man and line their pockets with silver. Let's be honest we all know how the government is legalized extortion, of which Tommy agreed. But he did warn of the fish becoming contaminated with plastic and chemicals, where factories were ignorant to the fact that they could not stop everything from going out into the environment. So they agreed to disagree with certain aspects of the topic. Even though they would argue about politics and the way of the world, the pair were still the best of friends. They were constantly trying to sway each other to their beliefs, but agreed it is healthy to have a good debate. After all we can't always believe what's in the news. We all have our own ideas of how the world works. It's just fortunate that Tommy can see the good side of the world Trevor thought. Better than seeing the corruption within the world, it'd send you crazy as it does to him many nights when he overthinks. The pair had a good working relationship, plenty of banter and practical jokes played on one another.

Sarah and Louise on the other hand worked apart, they had met through college on a course for administrational work. They had totally different jobs from the lads, but as one can imagine equally stressful in a different way. Trevor and Tommy always joked about the pair having pen pusher jobs, the girls could never take a joke on that front. They always took it personally as they told the pair on the lead up to the holiday that they would not put up with any so called banter. They just wanted a nice break filled with laughs and great memories. No one wants to think about work when they go away. While the lads could talk at work, it was very different for the girls. They used emails to message one another on breaks at work. They would talk about what kind of outfits they would buy and where they would get their beauty treatments done. This made the lads happy as they would get so wound up by the girl's conversations. Trevor had talked about his new running shoes over and over with the group. Tommy would always joke and say 'I hope this conversation runs away soon' this always made Sarah laugh as she had no interest in running. Tommy was talking about his new fishing tackle as Trevor would always joke saying, 'you talking about your rod again' which would make Louise giggle as she had a crush on Tommy. The big day was finally here as the group prepared for the day ahead.

## Chapter 2

## The big day

That morning the sun was rising. The birds were chirping away outside the window of Trevor's house. He had woodland that the back of his current living quarters faced onto. He had woken up early as the excitement of the holiday had kept him up half of the night. Trevor rose to his feet and stretched smiling, looking forward to the week away. He went to the front window to wave his other work mates off to work. "Don't miss us too much!" he shouted. They stuck the middle finger up at him as they drove off laughing. Trevor began to get ready whilst looking out at the nature in the woodland. He enjoyed being able to look onto the wildlife most nights. For Trevor the scent of summer in the woodland where he liked to go running was perfect, pure fresh air, no cars to avoid. Hardly surprising that he couldn't wait to be at the log cabin. He gathered his belongings that had been set out during that week and put them straight into his bag so he could set off sharpish, not forgetting his brand new running trainers. He then locked the door and got into his car. Trevor pulled up outside of Tommy's house, honking the horn as he came down the street. Tommy put his head out of the window. He couldn't wait to get out of the slum he lived in for a week. His house was an old terraced house from the mining days which had been taken over by down and outs. Tommy was one of the few who worked down that road and couldn't wait to move out to a better life later that year.

"Come on!" Trevor shouted, waiting at the bottom of the drive. Tommy rushed his things together as he also was waiting for this day to arrive. Tommy was always the late one in a morning to work. Trevor would be waiting outside his house for 10 minutes in a morning before they would finally set off to work, almost making the pair late. Trevor joked saying "I didn't think you'd be late today of all days." Tommy replied saying "Why break the habit of a lifetime!" Tommy walked up Trevor's car and put his luggage in the back of the car. His brand new fishing rod was attached to the car roof so it didn't get broken in the cramped car. "Get me out of here," Tommy said as he got into the car. "I thought you loved it around here?" Trevor replied while laughing, he knew how much Tommy hated that village. They set off to pick the girls up which was a fifteen-minute drive from Tommy's place. Laughing and joking on the way hinting that they probably had packed everything and the kitchen sink. Trevor pulled up and the girls were waiting, just as expected they had a heavy load of personal belongings. Tommy was laughing knowing that the pair would have packed enough to go for a year. Louise asked "What's so funny then?" "Nothing." Tommy replied. He knew that saying anything about it would just cause an upset.

"Right have we got everything?" Trevor said. "Yes, now let's go!" Louise replied. So they set off, the trip was calculated to take roughly around two hours to get there, but they may stop off on the way if they see anything of interest. Trevor approached the motor way and said "Tommy made us late and now we've hit the traffic." The girls laughed as Tommy replied "It's not my fault everyone wants to be on the road at this time." Louise stuck up for him, she knew that he would never make the time that Mr. over punctual had set. The traffic was light anyway and it would only set the four back by half an hour. "On the plus side it is sunny." Sarah said. They all laughed because her banter skills were getting sharper little by little every day. The heat was coming through the windows even early in the morning which had the signs of a good day ahead. The four knew they had to get some food before they got to the cabin so they could barbeque. "Let's not forget the main ingredient." Said Tommy, alcohol had always been the highlight of his holidays. They would be able to set a fire at night, have a barbeque and tell stories. Tommy told Trevor he needed maggots for his fishing somewhere along the way. Trevor advised him of a local fishing shop nearby. The group had been travelling for half an hour when Trevor decided to take the more scenic route.

He always had a thing about making the route more painful that it needed to be. To him the scenic way was far better than the barriers and 3 lanes. I think anyone can agree driving on a motorway can be very tedious. Besides, the old country roads were filled with fresh air and quieter routes. This was ideal for Trevor but the other 3 just wanted to arrive without the journey taking longer than it should. They drove up to a nearby shop that was filled with local sourced meat and alcohol, this was perfect for the group's first night. They could have the barbeque and drink, then explore the villages for the rest of the week. So they went to the till to pay for the items they had gathered. Sausages, Skewers, Burgers, Chicken and Steak, all made for a belly filling night of fun. The total price came to £70 they could not believe the high price. They argued it with the shopkeeper who only said "This is for quality produce." The four begrudgingly paid the man. They walked out of the shop and back to the car. Tommy said to Trevor "I bet they don't get much custom around these parts at that price." But if only he knew that was the exact reason why the prices were so high. The shopkeeper struggled to get people into his shop to buy items from him after what had happened the previous summer. The shopkeepers found it very strange how the deaths were happening none stop for a whole month and no bodies were ever found. Then it just stopped and the village returned to normal again.

He was just happy he had custom that day and that things may return to normal again. The four pulled up to the entrance of the log cabin site and how nice it was. The entrance was a big log cabin that had books, dvds and local information of attractions nearby. Let's not forget the fishing prices which were appealing to the eye of Tommy. He knew he could fish to his heart's content. Trevor never understood the excitement of it because he thought of the time wasted to catch a fish. But Tommy had explained to him that it's a peaceful sport and that he liked the silence. The walking trail info was also on the maps provided which Trevor began to read. Sarah and Louise continued to look around the cabin for items. They found a booklet showing the fronts of all the pubs around the site. It was perfect each one had its own beauty and charm about it. They all offered a little something different, from chilled out nights to party nights. They were so excited to go and visit that the barbeque that evening had lost all meaning. The pair agreed there would be plenty of time to enjoy a few drinks with the lads at the pubs later within the trip. They knew that the lads were excited about the barbeque and didn't want to let them down, especially as they had already bought everything for it. It was extremely quiet within the grounds, perfect for sitting and reading a book. It appeared as if they were the only people on site that morning. "Maybe it'll pick up later." Trevor said as they headed off to find their cabin.

It took them just a 5-minute journey for the group to pull up outside the cabin. Perfect Tommy thought, when he saw the pond was right next to the back of the cabin. He even had his own set up area which would be a short walk with his gear. The sun was now high in the sky; it was really warm with a cool breeze. "What a perfect day." Louise said as they all got out of the car. They all agreed to go to the back of the cabin for a picture together to mark their arrival and the start of the holiday. There were big conifers giving privacy for the camp grounds. Through the branches it could be seen that farmer's fields were just at the back. Dirt blowing from the field as the tractor ploughed through it. What a perfect time for a photo, the group could catch the beauty of the nature that Britain holds. This made Trevor happy as he thought this would change the future trips for the group and the minds of the people at home who were making fun of them about their mini holiday in the UK instead of a sunny beach abroad. The group had the photo taken from a timed camera. A perfect shot, but now was the time to explore the cabin. From the outside it had a tiled roof with green stains on, the decking had a wooden barrier outside with a swing which was attached to the side overlooking the pond. It was a two seater for the girls to enjoy and chat away over a drink while the sun set over the back.

They walked into the cabin laughing and giddy about what the inside had in store for them, it had a big living room with a kitchen. There were 4 single rooms as the friends opted to sleep in separate rooms. All four went to unload the bags and fill the fridge with the food they had bought from the shop. Trevor put his shorts on as there was no one else on site, he decided it would be funny to jump in the big pond and go for a swim. The rules said strictly no swimming but he ignored it anyway. He ran out the back and jumped into the pond, he was unaware that the land owner had cameras set up on to the lake. He was sick of young groups disobeying the rules. The cameras were the only evidence he had to fine the youngsters who came on site. He thought it would be a good deterrent but obviously he was wrong. Angry at the actions of Trevor the owner got into his Land Rover and rushed up to the cabin. Speeding down the back lane Trevor could hear the roar of the diesel motor. He knew at that moment it was a mistake, Trevor didn't want to cause the group to get kicked off the site, especially on the first day. He just thought it would be a little bit of fun. The owner shouted as Trevor got out of the pond. He told Trevor that the four were gone off site, he was red with fury. Trevor explained and begged to the owner that he was really sorry and that he enjoyed nothing more than the English countryside. This pleased the owner as custom had been down ever since the murders happened. He told Trevor that if he ever caught him again no second chances would be given. Final warning.

## Chapter 3

The first night

Time was quickly drawing to an end for the first day. The group had been sat drinking on portable chairs which they had packed. Trevor never mentioned what had happened previously that day. He thought best not to tell the others as they would think bad of him, Louise and Sarah always thought of Trevor as the responsible adult and didn't want to disappoint them. But everyone has to let their hair down now and then. As the night went on they sat around a fire pit which was embedded within the decking provided alongside the cabin. The stars were on full display as it was a clear day, the moon was big and bright. A slight breeze could be felt over their shoulders as they sat and talked about problems they had been through in that month. The bliss of a quiet cabin lit by only the fire was the perfect place to vent out all the frustration. Tommy had walked into the kitchen for a drink, he turned the light on and looked down. There was a blood stain on the flooring which no one had picked up on. Maybe it was the lighting earlier that day what made it unclear to see. He quickly shouted the others. They came running and were all shocked. Trevor said "There's probably a reasonable explanation." After all they were in the wild, maybe someone went hunting and had skinned a rabbit or pigeon for supper.

Louse said "Surely not there's way too much blood for a small animal." But Tommy and Trevor dismissed any idea that it was that of a human. The group said that they would ask the property owner when they see him. Tommy joked about how it could have been a friendship gone bad, and that one of the friends may turn by the end of the week. The girls knew his kind of sick humor and they just shrugged it off. The time was approaching Midnight and the group decided to hit the hay. They wanted to get an early night ready for the day ahead. The group took a decision to visit one of the villages near the camp. They all said goodnight as they went into separate rooms. Soon after falling asleep, while the group slept a strange person was outside the cabin. He was of a thick set build and almost 7 foot. His eyes were alert to catch any movement so that no one in the cabin would see him. He made his way around to the windows of each bedroom to take a look at what the new season had brought for him. As he moved around each room he saw that the lads were no match against his strength, when he got to the side of the cabin he saw the car parked. Deciding to slash one of the tyres so they had no escape from him.

He laughed to himself, proud feeling that he had caught the group in his web and that they could not escape the area. The strange character walked around to the front of the cabin to break entry. He had already seen around the back that there were lots of empty beer bottles, and that the group would not wake up easily to his sneaking around. As he picked the cheap lock of the cabin he entered inside, creaking boards under his feet made him look down and tread more carefully. He was careful of how to distribute his weight on the floor as he moved around. Not forgetting this is a 7-foot-thick set man. He opened the door of Sarah's room, while slowly making his way by her bed side. She was of a slim build, this disappointed the man as he was hungry for human flesh. He took a peak closer to her as he could smell the sweet perfume she had on, to him though the smell of the juicy flesh on her bones was much more appealing. She rolled over which made the stranger back off in case she woke and he had to run. She was wearing her pajama shorts and a small vest top, exposing the meal to come. He picked an item of clothing up and took a deep breath through his nose savoring the scent for the hunt.

He made his way out of her room whilst licking his lips. He then made his way into each room to see what prey he would be chasing through the nearby trails. Plenty of meat to keep the man going for a month he thought to himself. The sick twisted individual was to leave the cabin as he did not want to wake any of the residents inside. As he made his way out of the last room, which was Louise's. She woke seeing the figure of a huge man in her room. She couldn't believe her eyes as the man was so big, she questioned herself whether he was real or if she was fully awake. At first she thought it may be Tommy which the thought delighted her. As she woke further it became clearer that it was not any of the lads. He had a disfigured face, was wearing an old leather coat which was black and had stains on it. She saw a tool in his hand and she froze unable to move with fear. He noticed that she had awoken and he ran out of the cabin and into the near field. Louise quickly woke Sarah to tell her of what had just happened. She tried to explain to Louise that it would just have been one of the lads playing a joke on her. But she was adamant that it couldn't have been, purely down to the size of the man. Sarah got out of bed and checked the lad's rooms. They were fast asleep so it couldn't have been them, she thought maybe it was just a nightmare she had. Maybe she didn't wake up fully and that's why she was so scared, but then again maybe not. She was very confused.

They decided to go out of the cabin and investigate. Holding a flashlight and knife they went out into the camp. Louise could not get the blood stain out of her head as she was shaking with fear looking around the camp. "If we go back to back then we will get a 360-degree vision and no one can jump out and take us by surprise." Sarah said. Sarah always had the upper hand on things like this. She had read many books of survival and wasn't going to let anyone harm the two girls, or play a practical joke. As they walked around the site their senses were heightened and they knew that they had to be sure it was only a dream. The wind was blowing and many shadows were cast from the moonlight. This made it difficult to see if anyone was nearby, the human eye catching shadow movements unsure if they had seen someone of just a shadow. They finally got back to the cabin front door, just as they had said to one another about how Louise must have been half asleep still they went to put the key in. But the door opened without turning the key. Now the girls were really frightened and unsure if they had locked the front door when they left to investigate. They woke the lads to ask them if they had been out during the night. But neither of the lads had been out of the cabin since they all went to bed earlier on.

The girls were terrified at the thought someone had actually entered the cabin and none of them had woke up. Trevor and Tommy went to look outside to see if anything was out of place. They went around the site talking about it asking one another if they had played a joke on the girls. Neither of the lads admitted to playing a joke as it was only the first night after all. The lads couldn't see anything unusual or alarming around the site and decided to have a beer out before bed. Trevor opened the boot and noticed that one side of the door was leaning. He went to the side of the car to notice a flat tyre. Great he thought to himself. He asked Tommy if he would give him a hand in the morning to change the wheel. They sat out in the back of the cabin looking out onto the big pond. Trevor told Tommy of his previous encounter with the land owner and that it may have been a joke played on them. He decided that he would ask next time he saw him in case it was revenge. The lads had heard nothing for an hour and the girls were asleep. They decided to go back to bed and get some rest. The next day was approaching, they only had a few hours until they would be getting up.

## Chapter 4

## The village

The next morning came and the sun was bright over the back of the grounds again. Birds could be heard outside of the cabin, along with cars pulling up. Trevor looked out to see more families pulling up. They must have set off the next day he thought as he went to wake the others. When he walked out of his room Louise and Sarah were making breakfast for the four. "Here get this down you." Sarah said. He was very happy to see a fry up in front of him, once again Tommy had laid in. Louise went into his room to find him but he wasn't in his room. She told the others and asked if anyone had seen him that morning which no one had. Just as they started to wonder where he could be, Tommy walked through the front door. "Where the hell did you go? Not like you to be up and out before the rest of us." Trevor said. Tommy explained he had been in to book his slots to fish by the pond. Trevor and Tommy went out to repair the car, they needed to pick supplies up so they were able to fish in the week. Trevor pulled the spare wheel out of the back, he got all his gear to change it over out. A wrench and jack so they were able to lift the car up to change the wheel before they took it into a local garage.

Trevor loosened the nuts and jacked the car up, while Tommy rolled the wheel over to change it quickly. Trevor pulled the old wheel off and put the new one onto the hub. He fastened the bolts by hand, releasing pressure on the jack so he was able to torque the nuts up. All safe and ready to drive the pair headed into the village by car for the required supplies, and of course to get the tyre changed. He pulled into the car park of the fishing shop. It was an old run down building with a sign saying 'fish supplies' on an old white sign with red letters. The white paint of the sign had rust on the edges which showed it had been open for such a long time. This wasn't an issue as the owner probably had the best supplies they could buy. The two headed on inside and bought everything they needed for the weekly fishing, Tommy was excited to show Trevor what the fuss was all about. The garage for repairs wasn't far away from the shop so they headed on over to get the tyre sorted. The mechanic in the garage had asked how he managed to cut the tyre so bad but Trevor only thought he had run over something sharp what had go into it. Confused about how a split could be so big, he thought the tyre must have been faulty ever since he had them replaced. The man was so clever that he made it look like a tear from a fault rather than a knife.

The wheel that had been repaired was now back in the boot of the car, the pair headed off back to the girls. The time was now 10am and the grounds were livening up. Families came out from their cabins ready for the day ahead. Some of the families walking and some of them biking to the nearest villages. Once again the day was red hot already. The lad pulled up back onto the site where the cabin was. The girls cheered as they could now finally set off to the village that day as planned. Tommy put his fishing supplies with his tackle and the group set off down the path they had chosen. The trail was a magnificent display of colourful trees, plants and the scent of freshly cut grass. As they walked down the trail they laughed and joked about the night before. Tommy saw an old abandoned farm on the way to the village. He said to the group "Come on let's go for a look and see what creepy things that place has in store." But Trevor advised against this as he had already upset one local the day before in the pond. Tommy ran off into the field anyway to go and view what was inside. The other three felt obliged to follow him so that he didn't become hurt.

Tommy had run off into an old shed that contained various farming tools. It didn't take the other three long to catch him up. Once they had got inside it looked like something out of a horror scene, tools that looked like they had been used numerous times to slay animals in the farm. Tommy joked that this is what local produce gets you. The girls were horrified by the sight of blood on the tools and insisted that the four left immediately. Just as they went to walk out of the shed they heard a truck pull up, driving it was a thick set huge guy. The place looked like it had been abandoned for years so the friends didn't understand why anyone would pull up to the old place. He walked around the side of his truck as he noticed the shed door was open. The man walked up to the shed and decided to take a quick look but couldn't see anyone. He closed the door as he looked around the outside, Trevor and the gang were in the bushes hiding from sight. Tommy thought the guy was seriously strange as he seemed all agitated at the thought of someone finding the tools in the shed. The group quickly made haste back onto the trail. What they didn't see was once he had gone back to the truck he had a grown man in the back. His head was covered by a bag and arms bound together. The man dragged the limp body into the old farmhouse where the horrid torture would begin.

As he walked into this house of horrors he seemed pleased that he had found his prey for the day. He now had to get to work on dismantling the man to save the parts in the big underground freezer. In back room was a huge stainless steel table, where bodies previously dismembered were left. The corner of the freezer containing huge bags of salt where the man could preserve the parts. The deformed man was hideous and tried to keep out of daylight. He preferred to stalk his victims at night, under the radar and much less chance of getting caught. The fridge in the house had set out meals what he savored throughout the week. He was a truly sick and twisted individual who wanted nothing more than to feed from the limbs of the human body, and wreak havoc on the villages local to that farm. The man who had been dragged back into the farm house had been chained to the table. He was nothing but fresh meat to be butchered for the sick individual. He pleaded with the insane guy to let him go. Crying as he was terrified and couldn't believe he was about to die. The man had no remorse for what he was about to do as he had done it many times before to many people. One thing was for sure a sick individual like this should not be locked in prison but put down like the vicious dog he is.

The man reached for his axe as he ran it down the cheek of the victim. Laid on the table unable to stop what was about to happen the man froze, he could smell stale blood from previous victims on the edge of the axe. The killer didn't even have the decency to wash tools that he used to chop his victims up. Knowing he was about to die, the man spat in the face of the killer. This didn't bother him at all, he wiped it off and took a swift swing to the leg of the man. The victim screamed and began foaming at the mouth. The killer took another huge swing at his leg, taking several attempts to sever it from the victim. The man took great pride in knowing that his victim was in so much pain from the use of a blunt axe. This excited him, but as the victim passed out he began to become upset. He didn't want his victim to die so early during the torture. Reaching into the corner on the worktop he had adrenaline shots which woke the man up and stopped him from dying so fast. He then took an old saw to the top of the man's right shoulder. The victim could not watch and was in and out of consciousness, he just wanted it to be over quickly. A Stanley knife was taken to the man's chest cutting around the pectoral area. The victim's heartbeat got slower and slower until he couldn't handle any more and eventually died.

Meanwhile the four friends had arrived in the village of Pocklington. They had read on the internet that the place had a good pub called The Black Bull. This was where they were going to head after they had been and visited the canal they had read about. The sun was fiercely hot as the group finally sat down after a 7 mile walk. The flower beds down the side of the canal were all well kept by the local councils, plenty of flowers and color for people to enjoy. They sat laughing and joking about old times as the day went on. Tommy had brought a backpack containing cans of lager. The friends got merry and enjoyed the heat, but they needed something to eat before the walk back. This is where they decided The Black Bull would be a perfect place to eat. A wooden table out back overlooking the canal. Real home cooked grub to fill the four before they would set off back down the trail to the cabin. They ate a generous offering of various meals. After eating they decided to go back, time would be getting on and they wanted to relax at the back of the log cabin before they went to bed for the night. As they headed down the trail they passed by the old farmhouse they had entered on the way there. Tommy noticed something glistening as the sun was dropping over the back. He thought to himself I wonder if the man had an oil leak, so he went to inspect it. Tommy walked closer to the fluid and realized it was red. Shocked he shouted the group over to make sure he wasn't seeing things.

## Chapter 5

## The blood trail

Tommy couldn't ignore what he had seen and tried to convince the others to join him to investigate further. The other 3 decided to go back, they didn't want to anger the locals. Tommy proceeded to the farmhouse where the trail led to. He went to look through the glass pane of the house. It was filthy and he was barely able to see through it he went towards the back of the house where the windows were boarded up. Tommy should've gone there and then but Tommy being Tommy he decided to open the door and see what was inside. Curiosity always got the better of him. As he walked in, flies were all around the hallway. The stench of previous bodies that had been dismembered hit his nose and made him feel sick. But still even though he knew walking on would be the wrong thing to do, he had an instinct that made him want to walk further into the house. Getting stronger he walked into the kitchen where the man was hacked up. Half of his torso still left on the table with guts spilling onto it. Tommy froze, he couldn't believe what he had just seen. He ran out of the door to go and tell the others about what he had seen in the old farmhouse. As he got further into the field he ran faster in case the man turned up in his truck again, but not looking where he was running he caught a wire which tripped him over and he fell into a spike.

His arm penetrated by it, he was unable to move and tell the others about his findings. He tried to pull his arm off the spike but the pain was too much for him. Tommy heard a truck pulling up by the side of him. The wheel ran close to his arm as the man stopped. He got out of his truck and saw Tommy on the ground, he looked helpless like a rabbit to a cars headlight. The man looked at him and asked if had been near the house. Tommy denied that he had been inside, but the man knew it was lies as he looked up and saw the door open to the old farmhouse. Tommy pleaded with the man telling him that he was a good person and that he would not say a word to anyone about what he had seen. The man had no belief of this but thought he would play with Tommy's mind making him think that the killer would let him go. The man took a chain from the back of his truck and tied it to Tommy's foot. What was he doing Tommy thought to himself as this wasn't to be of any help. The killer got into his truck and drove down the field. The chain that was gathered up was getting tighter. Tommy held his breath as the chain was now going to rip him from the spike. Little did he know the man had no intention of stopping. He continued driving through the field. Eventually the chain pulled tight and ripped tommy away from the spike.

Tommy screamed out in so much pain. Thinking the man was going to stop but he continued. Tommy looked at his arm and saw that there was a huge hole where the spike had impaled him. Ready for passing out but relieved the pain from the spike had gone Tommy waited for the truck to stop. He could feel a sharp sensation on his leg as it moved further up his body. Tommy looked at what he was feeling and could see blades that were running up his leg and down to his back. He screamed out, but no one was near the field. The farmhouse was at least 3 miles from any living soul. This had all been too much pain, his heart slowly stopped as the blood of his body poured all over the field. The trouble was it was filled with corn so you could not see any traps that had been set out by the twisted killer. Knowing that he was now dead the killer decided to drive back to the farmhouse and store the daily catch into his freezer. He packed him with salt and sat him in the corner of the freezer ready to be chopped up on another day. The time was heading for 8pm and the group had heard nothing from Tommy. Worried he may be injured or lost they walked back towards the site. The rest of the group were angry at Tommy as he did what he wanted and never gave a damn about anyone but himself.

Still, they didn't like the idea that he may be hurt somewhere in the field, maybe he had fallen over and was unable to call his friends. As the group approached the field they saw no sign of him. Hoping that he wasn't playing any jokes they tried to call him, but his phone was off. Little did they know it had been crushed by the deranged psycho. The group headed back to camp as they couldn't see any signs of him. They thought he may have found another way back to the cabin. So they waited it out there to see if he would turn up. Sat out looking towards the trail the group became more concerned as the time got later. Tommy was known for disappearing and turning up when he felt like it so they tried not to worry too much as it could be nothing. They continued drinking and joking around, lighting a fire as they were going to stay up and wait for him to return. As the time got later and later they became increasingly worried and thought it was time to called the police. When Trevor rang he explained what had happened earlier that afternoon on the way home. He told the police how he usually joked around. They told Trevor to wait and see if he turned up in the morning and that a person has to be missing for 24 hours for them to be actually missing. Typical Police Trevor thought. The girls wanted to argue that they weren't doing enough and needed to take action now.

Ignoring the girls' advice, the police asked them to remain calm and to call back after the 24-hour period. The call had been notified to the local officer who straight away rang the detective. He was woken at 1am so he wasn't happy that the local bobby had rang him at such a time. But when the news of a missing person had entered the man's ears he was excited that it may be the killer of the previous year. He wanted to catch him, not for trial though. He wanted to take the man into the old barn which was on the same grounds as the farmhouse. Then he would put the psycho down as any real justice system would. He was sick of seeing murderers and rapists getting so little time in prison, and coming out with a better education. He hated the system and the people who would say that the man could be rehabilitated when he knew a man like that should be killed so that he could never hurt another person again. The detective pulled out his old files and stopped up throughout the night. He wanted to refresh his memory of all the missing persons and evidence of murder. He hoped that this time around he would be able to find a body that the twisted murderer had left behind. They had no lead on where the victims had been taken. All they knew is that pools of blood were found in various areas around the 5 villages.

Dusk had cast over the log cabin grounds and the friends were anxious to hear of any news. What kind of sick joke must this be if it was a joke at all the three thought. Twiddling their thumbs waiting for the phone to ring, every minute seemed like an hour and the group couldn't have any fun knowing that their friend may be hurt or even dead. Fed up of waiting Louise took a walk out into the night. Trevor called her back but she was adamant, she couldn't just sit and do nothing as he could be laying in a ditch somewhere. Trevor was holding his hands on his head as she walked off into the distance. He hated the idea that she would be alone yet he could not leave Sarah in the cabin on her own either. He was torn between the two options as he decided to tell Sarah that he would ensure Louise was safe. Sarah was ok with this as she could just lock the cabin and keep any strangers out, there was a big heavy fire poker that was used for the pit outside. She told Trevor he must go as she would fend off any bad people who may come to the cabin. Trevor ran fast to catch Louise up making sure he had a flash light to see where he was going, after all we didn't want another man down.

He soon caught her up as they walked towards the old farm house. The moon was bright giving the pair a good field of vision, they were able to see things clearly as their eyes adjusted to the night. Walking and trying to reassure each other that he would be ok, and that they would eventually come across some kind of evidence of his whereabouts. They told one another how if it was a joke the friendship would take a back seat, they wanted him to grow up and stop fooling around. Although they too agreed how strange the man's movements were that evening. They were curious to see if the truck was actually still on the property. Louise said to Trevor "Do you think we should take a weapon out of that old shed to defend ourselves if anything is out of sorts?" But Trevor was inclined not to take her up on that offer, he knew that he was out in the sticks. People did things differently here, they live a different life and have rules about entering prohibited land. This made Louise all the more worried as she could only surmise that the man had taken a deep offence to finding Tommy on the land. Still could the man kill him? There was only one way to find out. The pair approached the old farm house. A slight breeze in the air with a full moon still lighting up the area. The pairs senses were sharpened as they listened for any noise.

Trevor heard a faint sound in the wind, it was all too familiar to him as he used grinders at work. The pair just assumed that he was working late on the farm. Louise said "Should we go in and see if there is any sign of Tommy?" Trevor was holding back as he knew the man was huge. He didn't want to be tackling such a beast of a man in a fight. He knew that if they were to continue he would have to arm himself with something. This is the only way he could ever win in a fight against him if needed. They both quietly aimed for the shed which contained an item he had seen previous in the day. A metal bar that was light enough to swing when needed. While they were in the shed the pair could hear the sound of the grinder getting closer carried through the breeze into their direction. Still Trevor thought of the most reasonable explanation and kept his nerve as they headed toward the house. Louise was walking behind Trevor. They got closer with each step carefully placed as not to alert the man of their presence. A light could be seen on so they got close to the side for a peak through the old house. It was more visible through the pane of the glass in the night. Trevor walked just under to have a peek inside, to see what or why anyone would be grinding at a time like that. From his view he couldn't see anything unusual. The house just looked to be full of dirt like it had not been cleaned in years.

## Chapter 6

## The Chase Is On

He walked towards the front door with Louise right behind. Opening the door very carefully so he didn't alert anyone inside. The stench was very strong once inside, they both wretched in disgust. Still they had to be quiet, so holding their noses they continued towards the kitchen, watching in front and behind them getting closer. Trevor saw into the kitchen as he aimed his torch into it. The sight of blood was easily visible from people that had been hacked at that day, but Trevor could only think that it must be the blood of some kind of animal. Trevor partly opened a door that was made to be some kind of pantry. Shocked as he looked inside to see human heads with no eyes. Some rotten more than others, his heart was racing. He knew that the pair had to get out of there. What he hadn't seen was the string attached to a bell where the man was grinding body parts to store in his freezer. The grinder stopped as Trevor was forcing Louise to the door and telling her not to look at what he had seen. She was confused and scared, knowing they both had to get out of there the duo ran. The man was walking up the tunnel he had dug out where bodies could be dismantled in peace, he got to the end and up the steps that had been created.

He climbed up through the trap door in the dining room of the farm house. Walking to the kitchen he investigated to find that someone had been inside the cupboard of heads. Angered by this the man stormed out with a crop blade to chase down whoever had been in his house. The man didn't want anyone going to the police and alerting them of what had been seen within there so he stopped to take a look around. There was no one in sight, he ran to the cupboard to store the heads in another place. Picking them up with the eye sockets two at a time, he threw them down the trap door into his tunnel of torture. Now that was out of the way the chase was now on to find out who had been and invaded his home. Trevor and Louise were running so fast that their hearts were almost pumping out of the chests. Breathing deeply and terrified about what he had seen Trevor knew they had to get back to the cabin, get into the car and alert the police. The silly thing was neither of them had brought a mobile phone out. The man had a mast close to his field and he decided to cut the cable off. The signal had now gone from all surrounding mobile phones and the only way was to drive to the police station so the pair could alert the local bobby to what they had seen.

Back at camp the pair ran into the cabin where Sarah was patiently waiting for the couple to arrive back. Trevor was trying to get his breath back so he could tell them what horrors the house had inside that pantry. Shocked and screaming they asked Trevor if he saw Tommy's within that house. Sarah warned Trevor that if he and Tommy were playing a prank on the two girls then he had better come clean. Convincing the girls that no joke was being played on them they all got into the car and drove out to the village. As they got to the road the old pickup truck could be seen driving toward them. Not knowing it was the truck they pulled out, the headlights dazzling Trevor as it sped closer to the back of his car. As he did it became clear that the truck was the same of that he saw earlier that day. Trevor began to accelerate as he alerted the girls not to turn their head back and view what was behind. Telling them that it was only a short drive to the Police Station. The roads were very sharp on the bends making it harder to control the car for Trevor. Still he only had an 8-mile journey and knew the truck couldn't possibly keep up with his car. The girls terrified of what Trevor had seen previously in that house they kept asking him if he was sure his eyes weren't playing tricks. But they were looking more for comfort than the actual truth as they were haunted at the fact the groups heads may end up inside.

Trevor now annoyed with being asked over and over he told the pair to be quiet and stay calm. After all he was trying to get away from this truck as quickly as he could. It seemed that no matter how fast he tried to get away from the truck he was right behind them. Terrified to look into the mirror Trevor continued. Maybe this was a tactic to put Trevor off from driving down the bending roads so he lost control of the car. Not allowing that to happen he kept his eyes sharply on the road, the roar of the engine in the truck could be heard. The man clearly flogging the old thing to death trying to keep up, then all of a sudden the lights went off. The man had switched them off knowing he was coming up to a turning that he could cut the group off and force them into the ditch. Trevor was confused as in the moonlight he had already seen that the truck turned off. Thinking to himself what must he be up to. Speeding up around the bends he took no chances to overthink it and lose control of the car. The man was waiting at the lane end for the trio to pass by. They could see a sign telling them they only had 2 miles to get into the village. "How such as short distance can seem so far" Trevor said. He could see in the distance something in the road.

He got closer to the item which was right in the middle, the man hoping that they would stop and see what it was. Trevor got even closer to it and his headlights were shining bright on full beam to see what it was. All of a sudden he turned the main beam off and swerved to avoid it. The man was disappointed that they didn't fall for his trap, he picked up the head of Tommy and got back into his truck and drove it to a safe spot where it wouldn't be found by police. The girls asked Trevor "Why didn't you stop back there?" He replied "Do you really think it was going to be anything we need to see? It could have been a trap." How clever he was to know that the man may have beaten them to that spot and put out something that would make them scared. Trevor knew what he saw but never mentioned it to the girls. The head of Tommy had been put into the road. He knew what he had seen but didn't want to tell them. Now terrified for their lives, they raced to the village to tell the local officer of what the trio had just been through. How could he explain this to the local bobby as it sounded like something from a horror film. Only he wasn't in a film it was real life and he knew it was dangerous for the three of them to remain in the cabin. He knew once he had been to the police they had to drive back home.

They arrived at the police station hell bent on getting the man banged up and out of society. The night officer was sat behind the desk as they all rushed in, they were sweating and trembling with fear. The officer asked "What is wrong, are you guys ok?" Trevor proceeded to tell the events of what had happened that evening and that they had to act now before someone else was to get hurt. Little did he know they knew of such terrors the previous summer. The officer rang the detective who told the officer to not let them out of the station. He guided them a place behind the secure metal door where no one could get to the trio. Knowing they were all in shock he offered them a warm drink. Trevor and the girls accepted as the night officer went into the kitchen area of the police station. It was a lonely unit, didn't look like much of a police station at all. The night officer made the hot drinks but very sneakily put some vodka into Trevor's cup. The three were happy to be safe and with an officer. What they didn't know is that Trevor's drink had alcohol in as the officer's plans drew together. The detective arrived on site and called the group into another room to get the full story of what had happened. There was no way that he could let the group go without knowing every single detail and cross examining the stories. So he wanted to interview one by one.

As the interview went on one by one. He managed to get a full picture of what had been seen by the group. He asked all three to stay in a room while he got his thoughts together on how to move forward. He called Trevor back into the interview room, shaken up he asked the officer "Why aren't you going out there to find him?" The officer replied "Because I don't know if I can believe what I am really hearing." The detective got right into Trevor's face and asked him "Are you sure it's not a prank you're playing on those poor girls sat out there?" Trevor swore blind that he wouldn't do such a thing. As the detective sat back he said to Trevor "I detect a little scent of alcohol on you." Trevor couldn't believe what he was hearing and that the detective wasn't taking the story as serious as he should. The detective took him into a room and asked him to blow into the machine. Trevor had no issue with this as he thought no problem, he knew that he wasn't over the limit. He took a deep breath and blew into the machine. "It won't be a moment sir." The detective said, "Oh dear it looks like you're over the limit my son." Shocked at the result he asked for a second attempt, but the detective carted him off to be booked into the station. At least he would be safe there.

The night officer asked his name and details so he could be processed into the system. Trevor couldn't believe it demanding a second sample. But the officer laughed and told him that the machine was the most accurate and had been calibrated daily. The detective carted him off to the police cell. Getting dragged along the corridor he said "No you don't understand!" They had walked by the kitchen where the clumsy night officer had left the vodka on full display. Stunned at this he shouted at the detective swearing and trying to break shout to the girls. The detective having none of it threw him into the cell and told him to sober up. The girls meanwhile had no idea this had happened as the detective came back. He explained the situation and told the girls it was just probably a prank. The girls demanded that he wouldn't do such a thing and shouted at him. All they wanted was for him to go out and do his job. Which the detective was going to do, but under the radar of the police commissioner. He didn't was the story of what had happened previously or on this occasion getting out and scaring away all the tourism. Everything had to be kept secret as he would solve this and deal with this psychopath in his own way. He reassured them that Trevor would be released early in the morning and that they could all get out of the area, while persuading them not to worry. He told them of how guys always liked to play pranks in previous incidents he had been too. Unhappy with the help they had received the girls had to make it back to the cabin as the officer told them he would make sure they were safe.

Chapter 7

## The corruption

They continued outside into the darkness, a cool breeze still in the air. The girls hoped he would hurry and get them back safely. The night officer was messing around with the paperwork he had filled in before he could set off to take the girls back. The keys to Trevor's car were stored away in the locker as they were taken off him during being stripped of items when he was booked in. The girls knew this and waited as the only way back was from the night officer. No way would they walk back down the roads knowing he could be waiting for them to return. They were even reluctant at the idea of going back to the cabin. The only trouble was there was nowhere else for them to go. At least in the cabin they could see out into the open and find items to protect themselves from any person trying to harm them. The only trouble was; how do you harm a 7-foot huge man without killing him dead. The night officer came out and apologized for the delay. Still arguing with the officer they insisted that he must stay at the grounds to make sure no harm would come to them. He explained he could not do this as no one would be around to cover any other crimes being committed.

"Typical of the government to budget so low on resources." Louise said as she rolled her eyes. The officer could only agree and made it clear he had asked for more help in that unit over the years. Telling the girls of how they always struggled getting the right amount of officers due to the population of the area. The big idea was that more tourism would lead to drunk and disorderly behavior, needing more officers on the streets. That's why the detective was so keen to push any serious crime reports away from the place so that more tourism would be attracted. The girls and night officer headed to the squad car, they got into the back. The man was still anxious to see if any blue lights would be coming down the road to warn him away, he watched from a distance. All the evidence apart from blood puddles had been cleared away. The murderer wouldn't let anyone take the feast he had prepared for himself that summer. He had no fear or respect for the authorities. They were just another meal ticket, and in the police force a plentiful meal for the man as most were overweight. Maybe this was a good thing for the man as it would draw more forces in to his web. The trouble was that the more law enforcement that disappeared, he would have more trouble trying to keep them away.

Knowing eventually, he would get caught in the end if that scenario was to happen. He knew he had to hide in his underground bunker incase the police came looking. The trap door was not obvious to the naked eye as it was under a tiled floor. Making it near impossible to notice a difference. He knew the detective was smart from previous encounters, and making the tunnel harder to find was at the top of his agenda. After all, his food was stored down there. The trouble is to a cannibal no meal we find tasty compares to that of a human. Sick twisted individuals like this have to be stopped, the detective knew he could not miss out the second time around. He would leave no stone unturned to find the killer, and relieve the village of his presence. The detective knew that if he found the killer he could throw away the paperwork for the drink driving ticket. He just wanted someone intelligent out of the way so he could find the psychopath, not to bring him to justice but to eliminate him from the earth. This was a personal battle for him as he'd built the village reputation up cutting crime rates down. Any murders reported would kill the already dying trade. With holidays abroad becoming cheaper than staying in the UK. No he thought, costa del cabins are here to stay. No matter what the cost.

Once the journey back to the cabin had taken place they asked the officer if they would go and investigate the grounds that Louise and Trevor had previously visited. Unsure of what to do the officer told the girls of how he had to get back to the village station. "Well how can you say that, after you made it clear its dead around these parts?" Sarah said. Stunned by the reply that she had given him the officer proceeded to stutter and tell the girls "You never know when you might need a cop." Louise said "Good point, when you do need one you can't find one." Angered by this response he told the girls to go into the cabin and lock the door. He knew deep down that the property had more chance of the truth they told them. Terrified to go there he wanted to let the detective deal with the killer. After all the wages they get aren't worth risking their lives. The girls went back into the cabin, he rolled the window down and asked them if they wanted him to turn the lights on while he headed back to scare anyone off. "No!" Louise shouted "If you do that he will know where we are you moron." Sarah said. So he left the two girls at the cabin, he could see that cars were pulled up outside 70% of the camp. If they needed help it wasn't far away he thought to himself.

Feeling slightly guilty he rang the detective and told him that the girls were back at the cabin. The detective was pleased with this news, and told him one day he will make a good supervisor if he carries on that way. This gave the night officer some confidence. If only he knew that the superiors above him got where they were not through hard work, but back stabbing and corruption to get convictions. The detective told his night officer he would be going out and having a look at the property the next day. He wasn't prepared to take a look on the old farm house that night because he knew in the day he would have the upper hand and be able to see better. The night cop made his way back to the police station, driving slowly up the lanes to see if he had any sight of what Trevor told them earlier in the night. While this was going on Trevor was pacing inside his cell, unhappy about what had happened but no one to complain to. He heard a roaring truck outside the police station, it was the thunderous roar of that truck. He shouted, not knowing he was in the cell alone. The truck stopped as the door slammed. He could hear the footsteps of this killer coming by the cell he was held in. The front door went and Trevor knew someone was back by the sound of the door buzzer when it opened. No way of defending himself he hid behind the wall waiting for someone to come through.

Hearing the footsteps of someone coming down the corridor Trevor tried to hold his nerve. The echo of the footsteps was so loud, putting fear into Trevor thinking how heavy and powerful this man must be. The key entered the door of the cell as it opened Trevor jumped as if to climb on the back of whoever it was, but no one was there behind the door. Trevor very cagily edged towards the doorway, listening out for anyone that may be around. His senses sharp and his breath slow. Trevor knew he had to keep it together or he would end up falling into an easy trap. Using the reflection of the door he moved to see if anyone was outside in the corridor waiting for him to come out, but there was no sign of anyone. Knowing this he headed out of the cell into the corridor, his shoes waiting for him outside he slipped them back on. He wanted to get to the girls so that he could protect them from this murderous rampage, seeing that the police were no help. He knew that he must take it into his own hands. Running down the corridor he slowed towards the end. His keys were on the side waiting for him. Strange as all this was he didn't take any notice as he only had one thing on his mind. Leaving the station and running up to his car, he got in. He started the engine, looking in his mirror he saw the truck.

He saw that the exhaust was spiting fumes out of the back. This could be seen due to the truck being under a street light. This made it clearer for him to see. He set off happy that the car started and he was able to drive back. Speeding away from the police station making his way to the open roads that led back to the log cabin. Sweaty and stressed about what had happened he was keeping an eye in the rear view, unsure how or why someone would let him out. The temperature light came up on the dash. What he didn't know was that the water pipe running through his radiator had been cut. Not checking for this being in a rush his car came to a stop. The sensor that cut the engine out for safety reasons left him stranded at the side of the road. He now knew that this was the trap set for him and now he was stuck in a car that wouldn't move. Walking back towards the log cabin leaving his hazards on he was keeping extremely alert. He ran over a field which he knew eventually in that direction he would end up back at the cabin, keeping him off of the open road and easily in sight. Walking through the crops on the field trying not to alert anything or anyone nearby he continued. All of a sudden he walked onto a wooden trapdoor which sent him down into a pit, inside were spikes disabling him from fighting back when collected. The doors closed back up, the killer had designed it with gas struts to close the doors back up. Leaving the top of them looking like they were part of the field.

No matter how smart you are something like this couldn't have been avoided he thought to himself laying there dying. Waiting for his heart to stop because he was bleeding out heavily he prayed for the girls' safety. He knew that the man was smart, how could anyone find him down there when his car was at the side of the road looking like he would've walked up the road. Trevor took his final breaths leaving the girls alone to fight the battle out with the man. The killer came out of the hedges where the car was parked, he knew that he had to get rid of the car. Connecting a new water hose to it and filling it with water, he drove it out of sight. It went into an old redundant garage that no one had worked in for years. Laughing to himself knowing that the police would never find the body of Trevor. He now got back to his truck and to his safe spot. The detective had never found him there previously as it was totally out of sight. A bunker entrance in a ditch with a sliding door, no one could have possibly known it was there. Meanwhile the night officer pulled up to the police station noticing the car had gone. This panicked him as he ran into the station and saw the keys in the door. Stupid detective he thought to himself, not getting enough staff on site to stop things like this happening he paced up and down with his hand on mouth thinking what to do now.

Chapter 8

## A missing person

The next morning was approaching and the night officer was getting ready to hand over to the days' officer. He rang the detective to inform him of the escape, the detective panicked and told him to rid of the paper trail for Trevor. He didn't want anyone seeing what had happened the previous night. He knew the days' officer would report the case to a more senior official. This would open a can of worms for him and stop his plans of a bigger better station, with a much bigger pay rise. Franticly panicking the night officer gathered all items trailing to Trevor and burnt them. Settling himself down as not to alert the new officer coming onto site. The morning officer walked into the building, as he asked of any incidents during the night. The night officer said nothing had come up to follow up on and left the building sharpish. Running out of the building putting his jacket on his back and getting into his car he made his way to the detective's house. They had to be sure that they went to this property and checked out what had been said the night before to cover their tracks. Regardless of what was to happen the pair could not let any member of the force know that they had covered anything up. He pulled up outside the detective's house, telling him to hurry and get in his car. They both then set off to the alleged farm house.

The detective questioned the night officer if the days one had seen anything suspicious, but he assured him that he had covered their tracks well inside the police station. Now they just had to check out the farmhouse and make sure that nothing was out of sorts there. The detective knew he may find something but wanted to deal with the sadistic person himself. He just didn't want any bad press on his turf. Rushing down the back lanes to get to the farmhouse they both got their stories straight. "If anyone asks, we must stick to the same story." The detective said. The night officer knew it was the wrong thing to do but didn't want to question the detective as it would jeopardize his promotion if the bigger branch went ahead. They pulled up outside the farmhouse looking for anyone in the area that may have seen them pull up. They couldn't see anyone and made their way inside the building. The only issue was now they had to think of a way to keep the girls away from the station. So after they had cleaned up any mess in this old farmhouse the next point of call was to the log cabin to lie about Trevor. The detective looked around the house seeing the stainless table with blood stains on. He knew that this must be cleaned, or at least he had to pour an animals blood all over the table.

He looked out of the window onto the farm area but could not see any animals. Of course why would there be any animals the man was only interested in feasting from a human not an animal. This made the detective shudder as he knew that if anyone was in this house they would not hesitate to chop the two officers up. So grabbing an old sponge out of the sink he got to work quickly cleaning the table making sure that all the blood had dripped onto the floor. While the officer moped the floor down to the outside area. They both were gipping as the smell of remains were so strong in this house. The good thing is that the detective could excuse this as animal remains with it being a farm after all. They checked around the rest of the house and cleaned up any blood that was on the floor. The detective was furious this had happened again on his patch. He told the officer whatever happens whoever this is he will die and no one will ever know the truth of what went off inside this building. Not being able to see any physical remains anywhere they checked the pantry. This is where Trevor and Louise were the previous evening where they found the heads of the deceased victims.

Nothing was in there except from the stench of what had been moved by the sadistic man. Just flies blood stains which they again cleaned down and ran it outside. Today was the day they would catch the killer and try to use the girls as bait to get the man they wanted. The two quickly got back into the car, "We need to get changed out of these clothes." The detective said. The officer said they could go back to his house and burn the clothes they had on and put fresh on. The detective agreed but told him to stop by his house on the way so that he could get some fresh clothes. So they agreed and made their way to the detective's house as planned. When they got to the officers house they quickly changed and put the old clothes into a barrel. They filled it with petrol and set the clothes on fire. All the evidence that they were ever there had now gone up in smoke. Pleased with the speed of covering his tracks the detective now told the officer to get into his car and drive them to the log cabin. They had a story lined up that Trevor had found a way out the station in the night and ran. They had to make it believable that the Trevor and Tommy had played a joke on the girls which had gone too far. Meaning that Trevor now had to get into his car and flee from the station destroying the evidence that he was even arrested.

They pulled up outside the log cabin, Sarah ran outside to meet the pair and ask where Trevor was. They both looked at one another as the detective said "Calm down madam, we've got to the bottom of it and found it to be nothing more than a dirty prank." Sarah stood back with a stunned face saying "What do you mean a prank?" The detective began to tell her that the lads had set the pair up and that it had gone too far. Louise shouted at the detective telling him that Tommy nor Trevor would do such a thing, and that they were trying to hide something. Louise asked "Where's Trevor's car?" The officer and the detective looked at one another with a shifty look about them. The detective replied "I told you, both of them have scarpered from the area." The girls were stunned by the response of the detective, wondering how Trevor could have escaped so easily. Surely the cell was more secure than to just let someone run loose into the night. "Who was guarding the cell?" Sarah asked. The officer looked sheepish as he said "I was, it's not easy staying up all night, you know when there isn't much crime in the area." The detective grinned at the response as he told the girls the officer would be disciplined and they had nothing to worry about. "We will send the details through to the local station at Bridlington." The detective told them.

The girls still in shock at the response, unable to believe that the pair could do such a thing. The detective told them he and the officer had been awake for far too long and now needed some rest. They told the girls they would follow up that evening to give them an update on what the local force had said. The pair pulled off in their car as Sarah and Louise watched them drive off into the distance. Sarah said "Somethings not right, it all seems a bit too convenient." Louise said that the pair would go and walk to the local farm house to see if there was any police tape there. Surely they must have taped it off with what Louise had found. They went back into the cabin and armed themselves with some tools. Sarah was holding a knife from the kitchen while Louise had a flare gun in her hand. "If it is a prank the boys will pay." Louise said to Sarah as they walked off into the distance. They concealed the weapons into a bag that they had to walk with. After all they couldn't let the other campers see what they had. That might be reported to the police and then the pair would be in trouble making their story harder to believe. Not only that, these were friendly people, the girls didn't want them seeing that they had something to arm themselves even if there was a mad man on the loose.

The grounds of the cabin fading into the background, the day was like the previous two. Bright and sunny with a slight breeze in the air. The farmers were out on the fields with their tractors and farming tools. The sound of loud engines could be heard from the trail. Making it harder to hear if someone needed help. The pair were sharply alert to their surroundings. They couldn't let anything distract them from the true dangers that could potentially lay ahead for them. While walking they both talked about how the lads could do such a thing. They've known them years and never had such an occurrence taken place. The sound of the engines getting quieter as the pair got further down the trail. From their view this was a piece of paradise. What if the officers were telling the truth? Then again what if this was to be their last day. Sarah asked Louise "Did you actually see anything within that house?" Louise replied saying "Trevor wouldn't let me see." So this had put doubts in their minds about if it was a stupid prank and they had made everything up. The girls reached the entrance to the farmhouse just off the trail. Fresh tracks from a car could be seen in the ground, very slight but still visible. The girls wondered if Trevor had driven down here to the farmhouse to pick Tommy up on his way back home, knowing they had made a mistake.

The only trouble was that the tracks weren't as thick as the tyres on Trevor's car. Sarah knew this because all he kept talking about was the traction and grip of his car and how good it was. Confused the girls headed further into the grounds of the farm. Looking around them they made the plan. They should be back to back; in case anyone did attack them they had good vision of anything coming. They were sneaking through the field as not to get caught by a human eye. Now right up to the entrance of the house, they moved inside checking no one was there before they started snooping around the place. Louise told Sarah whispering to her so no one could hear that the house was much cleaner than the previous day. This confused the girls as to why anyone would have cleared away if it was a prank. They made their way to the door of the pantry, cringing as they opened the door, not wanting to see what Trevor had described to be inside. Again it was clean like it had just been cleaned. Louise knew it was all wrong and that something was not right. Who could have done this she thought, surely the lads didn't go to this much trouble to make a prank. Thinking about what the officers had told them they were pulling a clearer picture of what was going on. Not quite being able to put their finger on exactly what it was.

## Chapter 9

## The door hatch

The girls continued to look around the house to see what had been left in there and to give them a clue what was really going on within that farm house. They moved into the room where the door hatch was, the sunlight was beaming through the window. Sarah could see a crack in the floor, funny because it seemed to be that of a square door. Making her way over to it she put her knife into the hatch and pulled up. She shouted to Louise as they both opened it up. A stairway leading down into a tunnel, lights on either side a bit like it had been professionally put in. They looked to one another as they agreed something didn't add up and whatever was down there would be the answer to all of this. What was the point in phoning the police after all? They were corrupt and useless to the girls and the truth was a walk away. The only problem being the truth was far more terrifying than the police knew. They walked down into the tunnel closing the door hatch with the provided string on the underside of it. The girls edging towards the furthest wall that would give them better sight to what was around the bend. The smell was horrendous, and with every step they took it got closer and closer.

There were so many tunnels that could go to anywhere, but as the expression goes, follow your nose. The smell getting stronger as the temperature also dropped, the pair could see a room. Unsure exactly what it was, but the human curiosity sending them into that room to know. The floor was tiled white as they could see getting closer, the stains of blood on the tiles were getting them both nervous. After all what would you expect to find in an underground bunker of an old farm house. It could possibly have been where they butchered the animals to sell. Then again why would it be underground? As they got closer to the room they could now see it was quite a deep place with a big steel door. They made their way into the room as they looked around. Spare hooks and tools for slaughtering. The only question left was what is behind that big steel door? The girls were left in shock; they couldn't scream nor could they move. The bodies of men and women were all stored within this big freezer. Who and what could do such a thing to another human they thought. Shaking tremendously with fear the pair closed the door. The trouble was that once you have seen something like this you can never unsee it.

The pair headed back up the tunnel, racing to the hatch making sure they could get clear of the area before anyone saw them on the premises. Running as fast as they could they stumbled upon what they thought was rubble. "Stupid place, why did we have to come here?" Sarah said. She got to her feet and looked at what it was she had fallen over. The horror hit them hard as shivers ran down the back of their necks and down their spines. It was the heads of the humans previously murdered that Trevor had spoken of. The girls were too scared to even look down and inspect where they were walking before. This being where the sadistic man had hidden them. They ran up continued to run as they got to the steps, climbing fast they slowed towards the top. Sarah took a look out of the hatch to see if anyone was around, the place as quiet as a graveyard the pair climbed out. Sick twisted man Sarah thought, how could he do such a thing? Now was not the time to think about that though. They had to get out of that house and get as far away from it as they could. Their legs barely touching the floor as they ran out. Still no sign of any trucks or any people in the area they continued to get back to the trail. Frantic about what they had seen, their brains could barely process it.

How could all those missing people have been just forgotten and no further manhunt in the area? They both started making a very clear picture of what was going on here. They ran back to the cabin to get help. The girls had to tell everyone in the grounds exactly what they had just seen and get a huge force in the area to find this sick individual. Meanwhile the time had now hit 14.00 and the two officers were awaking from their cover up. The officer rang the detective to ask if they had done the right thing. The detective could only tell the officer that if you want that promotion, I would hold your tongue. How could someone hold a promotion above that of the safety to the public. This was what the officers went into the job for in the first place, but as time passes and how little they get paid the corruption was always going to happen. Fighting for their survival they must catch this delinquent and rid this earth of something so vile. After all, if they were to catch him and send him to prison, you would only get the snowflakes telling of his human right. It's not his fault, he probably had a hard upbringing. The fact was this sick and twisted man needed putting down. If they were to catch him they needed to up their game. The girls had got back to the cabin and all the surrounding families were getting ready to go out.

The girls shouted in the middle of the grounds about what they had just seen. All of the occupants of the other cabins stopped to listen. The mothers horrified holding the ears of their children not wanting them to hear of such crimes being committed. This was something farfetched and sounding like it had come from a movie. Most of the families ignored the girls and shook their heads. One shouted "Great way to try and scare everyone, especially the kids." Foolish people, you could see the stains on the clothes of where the girls had fallen over. One man stopped back to help the girls, he was an off duty officer on a fishing holiday. He was a good officer, in his mind he only had the best intentions of the locals and tourists. He asked the girls if they had been in touch with the local law. They explained of the trouble they had the night before and that they seemed to be covering something up. The man said he would call the officers himself to find out exactly what was going on. He was torn between that of the loyalty to a fellow officer to the truth. What if the girls were telling the truth he thought as he walked away? He did think it was a little farfetched, nothing like this had ever happened in the UK in this era. The truth will come out no matter what the cost he thought.

Ringing the office of the local law, no one was there to answer. This confused the off duty officer as he had never seen such an under staffed police station. He was from Manchester where the enforcement area had huge amounts of offices and plenty of staff to take on calls. He contacted the emergency line to get more help into the area. Whilst on the phone he explained he couldn't get anyone local on the end of the phone. The emergency workers managed to get hold of the nearest major station in York. Officers would make their way out to the grounds to visit the complainant to gather a full story of what was going on. They were speeding through from every direction. The killer could hear the sirens from his hideout and knew that this could be the end of his rampage. He may have to escape from the area and get far away from these grounds. This upset him and made him furious that something had been found. If he could he would find out who found any evidence of what he had been up to and rip them inside out. He would make their death a slow and painful one. One of the main reasons he was angry was that his stores for the summer were in this area and he wouldn't have time to collect the frozen body parts he had hidden away. The sirens were getting closer and closer to the village making him panic.

The house was a doorway into the tunnels which he had created, making it easier to get around the area faster. If he needed to catch anyone he would just enter one of the well-hidden doors and get somewhere fast. The man thought of it like a set of traps, each one would cause excruciating pain and make the people scream giving him a clear picture of where to go inside these tunnels. Each trap had an entrance right next to the tunnels so he could drag them back to his farm and torture the poor individuals. The only issue was that this is the day he feared, where he would kill officers, but more would just keep coming. That's how he knew he would have to get out of this area. Time was of the essence for him to collect as many remains as possible and get out to the coast line. The police were now at the log cabin where the girls were never more pleased to see them. They told their story of the previous two days, and made it clear that they were both telling the absolute truth. The officers could see this as they took notes. They were going to be sharp on the heels of this guy and also the officers who dealt with this incident up to this point. The detective could hear the sirens coming through the village he knew that this may be the end of his career. Very angry about this he had a crossbow in the back of his personal vehicle and was going to hunt the killer.

Police swarmed the local station only to find the day's officer fast asleep, they quizzed him of why he didn't pick up the phone when the off duty tried to contact them. He looked under his desk and saw that the line was still connected. This was dangerous for the man's career as he had no excuse other than he was fast asleep. The officers appalled by the behavior of this officer they asked who his superior was. The day's officer told them that the detective was in charge at this station and that they had best see him to resolve any problems. They radioed it through to the York office where the senior officer discharged the day's guy from his role. He was to be sent home and suspended pending further inquiries. Now the real enforcement was here to scope out the area and find out exactly what had been happening in this village. They got all their men in position across the village. No road would be left open for anyone to escape or get in until this matter was resolved. The officers had now got all the information from the girls right from the very first day. They told them to stay in the cabin and not to go anywhere until the initial investigation was complete. The girls were frightened that they may have become a prime target for the killer. They made sure every window and door was secure. One officer was left at the cabin for the safety of the girls.

## Chapter 10

## To catch a killer

The killer was worried and hiding still within his tunnels, making his way to each entrance he looked out of the holes next to them so he could see what was happening outside. Every set up he had made to go underground was met by officers nearby. He couldn't escape from the tunnels until he had his chance. Maybe when the shift changeover comes into place that will be his chance to escape. The killer waited as the hours passed, wondering to himself what mistake he had made. Suddenly it dawned on him that the only evidence he had left lying around was the heads in the pantry of the house. He knew that someone had been inside to take a look around. The closest place nearby was the cabin grounds where someone may have stumbled upon his gruesome activity. He made his way to an entry point right next to the cabin area. He could see that an officer was guarding one of the cabins, this had to be the people who had reported him in the first place. Thinking to himself if this is my time to go down, I won't go without a fight. He made his way out to the rear entrance of the cabin. Sneaking up on the officer and taking him by surprise, he swung a meat cleaver to the neck of the officer. Blood came pumping out of his neck as the head rolled down and the body fell.

"What on earth was that noise?" Louise said, the pair walked toward the front of the cabin where the officer was supposed to be keeping guard. They saw that his body was laid on the step way as if he was sat up looking down as they noticed the blood on the steps. They looked to the left to find that his head was staring them in the face. Sarah went to scream while Louise covered her mouth and said "Do not alert anyone to our presence!" Both of the girls ran to hide in the cabin they got under the kitchen counter which appeared to be a blind spot to anyone looking in. They could hear footsteps around the cabin, the killer wasn't the most intelligent of people like Trevor thought. He just knew how to set traps up and torture victims. Not being able to see anyone in the cabin the man dragged the officers remains inside of the entrance nearby. He sat there waiting for anyone to come back to the cabin where he prepared and ate part of the officer's body. Sarah and Louise knew that they were in trouble. The only way out was to make a run for it to the nearest officers. They had been told that there would be officers all around the area, so they knew it wouldn't be long before they bumped into somebody. Little did they know that he was waiting watching for the return of someone else. The area was deserted as police had told holiday makers earlier to move out of the area while they conducted their investigation into the matter.

This made it silent in the grounds and very difficult to escape without alerting someone that they were leaving. They walked to the front door, only the blood of the officer was on the ground. So they knew that the killer had collected the body and took it elsewhere. Sarah opened the door to the front entrance. Both of them taking it very slowly to walk into the open area, they moved towards the next cabin. They needed to be out of sight as much as they could, not knowing what was lurking within the grounds. Every rabbit moving in the trees and birds flocking in the leaves were making them alert to the elements around them. While trying their best to differentiate that of wildlife and human. The girls made it to the entrance of the grounds which led to the main road. The killer could now see the two girls so his hunt began, He hoped that they would fall into a trap set up in the fields if they walked that way keeping them out of sight. The girls did so too, making their way to the next farmers field they were checking all around them while keeping well hidden in the crops. The only trouble was now that they wouldn't be seen by officers nearby unless they alerted them. The pair made their way further into the field making sure they kept looking for any signs of police presence.

Unbeknown to them that this field was full of traps, which they had never even thought of considering that no one had ever been found in one. They continued to the nearby road to exit the field. All of a sudden Sarah slipped and landed on one of the trap doors which Trevor had previously landed in. Louise quickly caught her from falling any deeper. They both took a look into the doorway as they could see it was a trap set up. Trevor's body was still impaled onto the spikes. He had flies around his wounds. The girls screamed as they walked up to the road, the nearby officers heard the girls and came running. They asked the girls why they weren't at the cabin, as they told the officers that the officer guarding them was missing. The two officers looked at one another and called in to the radio in his car. No answer came from the car, which worried them. They said they would take the girls to the police station where they would be safe. Sarah said "Oh yeah, just like Trevor." "What do you mean?" One of the officers replied. The girls took the officers to the trap doors while putting their foot on the doors so they were able to look inside. "This is what we mean!" Louise said. The officers quickly radioed the body in as they called for more back up in the area.

The girls were to be taken to a station further away where the killer would not be able to get anywhere near them. The area was already swarming with officers, now they had found some evidence of a dead body that they had called in. More officers arrived on scene. They knew that this was the work of someone clearly twisted. As the call came through about the body that had been found the local detective and the night officer drove to the site where Trevor had been found. They wanted to see what they were up against, the race was now on between police arresting the man and the detective wiping the man from the face of the earth. Arriving to the door hatches the detective was puzzled by how no one had found this previously. Never in all of his 10 years as a detective had he seen such a well-planned trap. The only trouble is it had one floor. The doorway to the hatch where a body could be dragged away could be seen from up top. The detective saw this as he went down into the tunnel. This was a totally new area for the detective as he now could see that the killer had plenty of tunnels, which led to all different areas of the village. This enabled him to move bodies faster and leave nothing but a blood trail. The detective knew this man had a very good hunting instinct.

Making his way through the tunnels with the night officer, the detective was very wary of his surroundings. Careful not to step on something that was left to disable anyone who had been able to figure out this tunnel system. The detective continued to walk forward, while the night officer followed behind him. They couldn't believe how well established this area was, the tunnels had been built extremely well. Ensuring that they were never to cave in, as the detective continued and moved around certain parts of the tunnel system he knew that the killer may be anywhere close by in there. This was why he was unable the previous time to catch anyone because such a well thought out system had been made. The night officer was terrified to be in there and wanted to radio through to the other officers. The detective didn't allow this as he didn't want the killer to be found. Under his jacket was a gun, he wasn't going to let the killer live no matter what the consequences. Maybe you could call this a guilty conscience on his part. All the victims that had been dragged into this tunnel way and dragged into the farm house to be tortured, it just made him realize how selfish he had been. The killer had certain areas of the tunnels set up so that no one would be able to continue and catch him. There were spikes that came out of the walls and axes set up to smash the head of anyone intruding.

The detective heard a switch sound as he ducked. An axe did come swinging down but missed him. Not failing on its job though as it split the head of the night officer. He did not see it coming. Now the detective was alone in these underground tunnels, no matter what he had to find out who this sick and twisted man was. As the detective continued down the tunnels he saw a huge figure looking out into the area. He shouted to the figure to ask who and what they were doing in that tunnelway. No reply came from the figure as the detective got closer. Watching his every step so that he didn't fall ill on a trap set. Trembling with fear he got right next to this huge figure but no movement came from them. He shoved the figure as it fell to the ground. It was just some old materials that were left in place for this exact reason, to buy time for the killer to either kill or get out of there. The detective looked out of the hatch where the setup had been made. It was another entrance into the tunnels which he walked out of. It brought him out to a lane, where officers were nearby stopping anyone coming or going. So he knew that there were a number of these, and that's how he got around so quickly. All things started falling into place for the detective, but he knew the killer was still somewhere in the tunnels. He knew there was no escape above ground as the village was sealed off.

He made his way back down the tunnelway to find the killer. If he had been caught by now it would've been on his radio long ago. The detective found a way into the main tunnel, it was full of traps. Very well lit though so the detective could see the outline of where he had set them up. Making his way further down to the end he could see that it was leading to something bigger. The temperature dropped in this area, and the smell was awful. He knew that this would be the main evidence he had missed previously. Furious that all this had not been found he made his way down the tunnel with the gun pointed in front of him. As he got around the corner he could see the huge room which led to the stainless steel door. There was the huge freezer where all body parts had been kept. The detective walked in and saw that there were body parts all over inside. He was sick on the floor as he'd never seen such barbaric behavior. This had to be a mission, to kill this twisted individual. He turned around heading back into the tunnel, he saw movement in a shadow from the lighting. There was a huge figure and he followed it for a closer look. The killer looking out into the open, figuring out who was still around. Not thinking anyone was down in the tunnel he had no regard to what was behind him. The detective came closer to the man shaking.

The gun wobbling in his hands, he asked the man to turn around. He was shocked to see a hideous face, teeth like razors and scars all over him. The detective didn't want an arrest, he wanted justice. He squeezed the trigger 6 times emptying the chamber. The nearby officers heard the gunshots as they made their way to the area. They got closer to the entrance as the detective stood making sure he was dead. The officers were shouting that anyone in the area should make themselves aware as they radioed it in. The detective opened the entrance. The officers couldn't believe their eyes; this entrance was so well disguised that no one would ever know to go inside. Unless you designed it. They asked the detective to walk up the steps and out of the tunnel way. They saw the gun in his hand as the detective said "I finally got him." Stunned by the response they asked what he meant. The detective came clean on everything he had hidden from the previous year as he was arrested and led away. The entire force was now in the area checking all the evidence, the detective made them aware as he was sent off that there were traps in the tunnels and that anyone should be careful. No one could believe that such a place had been set up. This was to be the biggest finding in police history. Even bigger than the mountain men in America. Every place has history behind it. But now the history of the place was to be a saddened one.

## Chapter 11

## The relief

Sarah and Louise were made aware of what had gone on. They had never dreamt they would be part of something so big. The local law enforcement in that area were all arrested for covering evidence up. The police station was shut down and any police work handed to nearby bigger offices. The girls were told that the detectives failings were the cause of death to their friends. Upset by this they wanted to see the detective to question him on why he had not come forward sooner with this kind of information. The detective could only speak of his own greed and selfishness, which eventually became the end of his career. If only he had been straight with the other forces in the first place it still would have been one of the biggest findings of any serial killer in the UK. He told them of his sorrow to all the lives that were lost during this carnage. He told them of his guilt and how he felt about the whole situation. This made no difference to the girls as their friends were now dead. An apology wasn't going to bring back their treasured friendship. They hated the detective for how selfish he had been to power and money. This is the problem, money and greed will always cause corruption no matter how he felt about his actions. He was now looking at life in prison, but at least he caught the killer in the end. One way or another.

The girls made their way back to the cabin with a police escort to collect all their belongings, they were extremely saddened by the events that had taken place. Something like this can change mental stability for the rest of your life. The police had offered victim support, but for what it was worth the girls decided they would heal through being there for each other. Once all the belongings were gathered Sarah and Louise were taken back home. They would make an appearance later that evening on television to get the story straight. How the police were corrupt and didn't want any outside influence investigating their territory and spoiling tourism in the area. They were planning to tell the television crew how they were as sick as the killer himself. Once they had told their story and got it straight for the listeners they could move on and heal. After all everyone knows how the force don't want to admit to any wrong doing, so getting the truth out there was most imperative to the girls. They arrived at home with all their belongings. Family and friends in tears with open arms to welcome them home. All of their friends and relatives helped gather all the belongings that were sat in the back. The police car then drove into the distance once the girls were safe. All the village threw bricks and eggs at the police car out of anger as it left, but the girls shouted for this to stop. This would only show they were as bad as they are.

While the police car made its way out of the area, other officers in the area were on scene at the farmhouse. They were taking photos and DNA of the victims, so that proper burial services could take place. None of the officers on scene could believe what they were seeing. This was such a horrific event which unsettled the whole of the local villages. Talk began to gather around that they would burn down the farmhouse once the police had finished their work. This would take around two weeks to fully recover every bit of evidence. The detective would never see the light of day again, he was to be put behind bars and kept in isolation away from anyone else for his part in the crime. He had cracked up with guilt by this point anyway so a life sentence meant nothing to him. All he could think about was that promotion. Two weeks had gone by and all the locals gathered to torch the place to the ground. They wanted rid of such a place where the terror had happened. One thing was for sure tourists in this spot were now likely to never come back. The officers were there to make sure peace was kept during the torching of this horrendous place. The flames grew into the night's sky and smoke rising into the clouds that could be seen from all villages within the area. Candles were lit in the night for the victims of the crime. One of the crowd was looking out into the field where it was well lit from the flames as he asked "did you see that?" His friend said "What?". "Never mind, I thought I saw something moving out in the distance." All the locals headed back to their homes, as the man from the crowd drove back he thought to himself if he really saw anything or it was just his imagination. The killer was shot numerous times he was obviously just paranoid he thought trying to convince himself.

The End

103

