 
The Salvation Package

and it's Free for You

DR TIMOTHY SNG

The Salvation Package, and it's Free for You

Publisher: Dr Timothy Sng

Sng Kim Hock, Taman Tun Dr Ismail, Kuala Lumpur

Copyright 18.4.2020 Dr Timothy Sng with Smashwords

ISBN 978-967-18033-1-8

Website/Blog: www.drtimothysng.blogspot.com

www.timsng.blogspot.com

email timsng@gmail.com

Printer: Akitiara Sdn Bhd

Cover Janice Khaw janicekhawaimee@gmail.com

This eBook is the copyright work of the above author. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing to author or publishers.

Scripture taken from the New King James Version®. Copyright © 1982 by Thomas Nelson, Inc. Used by permission. All rights reserved.

Scripture taken from the New International Version. Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984 by International Bible Society. Used by permission of Hodder & Stoughton Publisher, a member of the Hachetter Livre UK Group.

Contents

Synopsis

A Word from the Sponsor

Preface

Chapter One The Search Stops Here

Chapter Two Salvation is from the LORD

Chapter Three The Preciousness of Our Salvation

Chapter Four The Salvation Package

Chapter Five What to do with the Package?

Chapter Six Jesus Came To Set Us Free

Chapter Seven Overcoming Trials & Temptation

Chapter Eight Don't Lose The Package

Chapter Nine A Champion in Five to Ten Years

Chapter Ten Awesome Power in The Salvation Package

Synopsis The Salvation Package, and it's free for you

Everyone loves a freebie; and there are indeed many things in this world that are for free. The internet and the smartphones have access to so many free things in the world that it doesn't make sense to pay for anything on the internet these days.

Music and songs are free; newspaper articles and programs are free; lots of books and articles are free; one can almost get free education and a degree at a reputable university for free, if we persevere, whether with or without sponsors and scholarships.

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is free too.

However, while we assume that everything is free, there is actually someone paying for everything. Thus, in actual fact, nothing in life literally comes free. Someone has paid the price for you.

So too is the "Salvation Package" – it comes free for you; but the Lord Jesus Christ paid the price for all of humanity, when He laid down His life on the Cross as a payment with His Blood, the Blood of the Lamb of God, for the redemption of the sins of mankind.

"For the wages of sin is death, the (free) gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord." [Romans 6:23]

Yes, "The Salvation Package" is free for you; and that includes this book, published for you, because it is all paid up by someone for you.

Take it, read it, receive the "Salvation Package" in full, for it is already paid up, and just waiting for you to claim.

Truly, this amazing "Salvation Package" comes eventually with it, a majestically built, superbly designed, and artistically furnished with super hi-tech enormous mansion on a hill fit for a prince, - your very own personalized heavenly abode, complete with a garden of flowers and fruit trees, and a flowing stream alongside, right up there in your own privileged corner with cul-de-sac when you finally arrive at "Home".

All this is not empty talk, nor a dream; it is for real, if you have yet to pick up "Your Salvation Package" or to fully open up to claim all the wonderful gifts and privileges within it.

Foreword

From the Sponsor of "The Salvation Package"

My friends, I call you friends because I am the ONE who purchased wholesale this full package for you, and I have made it known to you all, - all the things that ABBA has done, as you are truly my friends. Furthermore, it is I who chose you from the beginning, and also, I who has made the costly sacrifice for you.

I write to caution you that because this package is so special, and truly prepared for you, there will be jealous and unkind people out there, who will do their best to distract you and deceive you from receiving this beautiful package and all that is in it, that is meant for each one of you. [John 15:13-20, & John 10:10]

I must say that it is ABBA's very loving and compassionate wish that every one of you will come forward to receive it, and ABBA appeals to each one of you to accept it, so that none of you will miss this precious package, for without it, you may not make it HOME. [2 Peter 3:9]

ABBA expresses his great love for everyone; for that reason, ABBA sent me to make it possible that each one of you will be set free, to have no hindrance or obstacle whatsoever, and that all of you henceforth has become eligible for this package. Like all free packages, you have to tick or click "Like" and sign in personally just before collection. [John 3:16]

This "Salvation Package" will give you a new life and truly a life of abundance, and you will be renewed, refreshed and revived in your mind, your body and your soul, as a new being in my spirit. [2 Corinthians 5:17, John 10:10b]

You will experience a dramatic change in your life, a transformation within you, as a new spirit will now live in you, while your mind will also be made new, sound, stable and strong. [Romans 12:2; 1Corinthians 6:19]

You are now received and welcomed back into ABBA's arms, and you can call him ABBA too. [Romans 8:15]

The key is to come forward wholeheartedly and receive freely and fully all that ABBA has prepared for you in this "Salvation Package", and you will be set free. [John 8:32]

When you do so, you will do amazing things, great and wonderful things much more than what I did during my short stay on earth. [John 14:12]

I am with you in spirit all the way, and I will never leave you nor forsake you.

[Matthew 28:20; Psalm 16:8 & Hebrews 13:5]

We will definitely meet again, and ABBA & I will come over to your beautiful Mansion to visit you, and even stay with you when you come HOME. [John 14:23]

Jesus Christ

Son of God &

Lamb of God

Preface

The "Salvation Package" was Holy Spirit inspired, birthed and completed within 100 hours, made possible by the modern computer software, and previous compilation of writings.

Edited and refreshed from another title "The Christian Life", the chapter with the same name as this was adapted, expanded to become a book of its own right.

A God-idea came that I could borrow the Lord's words to write a forward, as this book "The Salvation Package" is all about my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

My Master has spoken; hence, this preface will be brief.

Also, because the original "Salvation Package" is free and has already been purchased for you, this booklet "The Salvation Package" is free too, to be paid by sponsors.

May millions and billions pick up this beautiful and wonderfully presented and wrapped-up package of great benefit and use, on earth as well as for heaven.

Dr Timothy Sng

Chapter One The Search Stops Here

Paul said to the Greeks: "for as I was passing through and considering the objects of your worship, I even found an altar with the inscription "TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Therefore, the ONE whom you worship without knowing, HIM, I proclaim to you." [Acts 17:23]

As Paul said to the Romans, this is the same words that he would say to the Greeks that day, and to you, my beloved reader today, "There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit."

By that, Paul an apostle tells us that when we now live in the Spirit as a follower and believer in Jesus Christ, we are no longer to be condemned and judged and delegated to eternal judgment and punishment – or "Hell", but immediately eligible for entry into the Kingdom of Heaven.

Nevertheless, if indeed, you should still desire to search, then do a "quick search" with "Google", as everyone would say these days.

I enquired from Google for the reader:

"How can I be saved from sin?"

Google answered: "To be saved through Jesus Christ, you'll need to bring the teachings of the Bible into your life and ask for salvation through prayer. When you commit a sin, confess it through prayer as you can ask God for forgiveness."

Google was referring to the "Salvation Package."

These were among many questions that many learned scholars asked Jesus.

"What does it mean to be saved?"

"What must I do to be saved?"

"How do I make it to heaven?"

Nicodemus, a senior member of the Sanhedrin Council quietly went at night to Jesus, who is the right and best person to ask this particularly great question of all time. After all, He is the Savior for all mankind.

Jesus said, "You need to be 'born again' into the Kingdom of God."

Our first birth is physical with blood and water, via our mother's womb. This second birth is by the Spirit of God. Jesus said that we need the second birth, or to be born again in the Spirit.

Jesus said, "Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." [John 3:3]

Jesus then repeated, "Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God." [John 3:5]

John the Apostle wrote in the Gospel "But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in His Name, who were born of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of men, but of God." [John 1:12,13]

This is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God who came down and laid down His life on the Cross of Calvary, to redeem mankind of our sins. He paid the ransom with His Blood shed on Calvary, - the Blood of the Lamb of God. Almighty God, the Omnipotent, Omniscient, Omnipresent and Compassionate Creator of mankind, seeing the Blood, has now forgiven all the sins of mankind, from Adam until now.

Therefore, if you believe that Jesus Christ is Lord and Son of God, the Savior of the world, and welcome Him into your life, you will immediately be forgiven of your sins, and become 'born again' in the Spirit of God. Your name is now written in the Book of Life.

You are now a Christian, a child of the Living God.

The search stops here, as the Savior is found, and the Truth revealed, as the Lord Jesus Himself declares that "I am the Way, the Truth and the Life; no one comes to the Father, except through Me." [John 14:6]

The Spirit of Christ comes and resides in us, as we become a temple of the Holy Spirit. We are now 'born again' as a new creation, - elevated and empowered as prince, prophet and priest of our family and area of influence.

This is the prayer of a believer, welcoming Jesus as Lord and Savior:

"Father God, I come before You in all humility, repenting before You for all my sins, as I surrender to You, believing and receive Jesus Christ Your Son, as my Lord and Savior. Forgive me for all my sins, LORD, and I thank you for receiving me as your child into your Kingdom on earth as it is in Heaven. In Jesus Name, I pray. Amen."

Chapter Two Salvation is from the LORD

Salvation is from the LORD.

Salvation is from the Lord Jesus. Jesus paid for the sins of mankind, by laying down His life, shedding His Blood on the Cross, washing away all our sins – the sins of mankind, thus giving us free access into the Kingdom of Heaven.

Jesus is King of kings and LORD of lords, and all authority in heaven and on earth is now given to Him.

Salvation is a free gift from our Father in Heaven, when He sent His only begotten Son, so that whoever believes in Him will not perish, but have eternal life with our Father. [John 3:16]

This is the ultimate Promise of God that our Father in Heaven has given His Son as a sacrifice, and paid the ransom for all, purchased by the Blood of Jesus, the Blood of the Lamb, an unblemished Lamb of God, thus cancelling all the sins of mankind.

Man can now freely return to Heaven, to our Heaven Father, from whom all of us initially came.

This is God's great love for mankind, for man came from God, as we were first created by God, and we are many generations from Adam. It is His desire and great plan that none should perish, but that all should return to Him.

2 Peter 3:9 declares that "The LORD is not slack concerning His promise, as some count slackness, but is longsuffering toward us, not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance."

Like any Father, like the father in the story of the prodigal son, Father God is more than willing to forgive us of our wrongdoings, as long as we return to Him with a repentant heart.

God therefore has already made it possible and has the Doors of Heaven open and ready for you and I, as long as we call upon Jesus, His Son and Savior of the world.

God has made it smooth and easy, - a "Green Lane" at the Immigration Center in Heaven, for all of us who have a virtual Passport, stamped by the Blood of Jesus.

Salvation is from the LORD. Take it, claim it, receive it, and keep it securely in your heart, close to your chest.

See you there in Heaven.

Chapter Three The Preciousness of our Salvation

How precious really is your and my salvation? How much really is its worth in value? The answer comes in the verses below:

Matthew 16:26 "For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?"

Mark 8:36 "For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his own soul?"

Luke 9:25 "For what profit is it to a man, if he gains the whole world, and is himself destroyed or lost?"

For this to be mentioned three times in three different Gospels, as the word from the lips of our Lord and Savior Himself, emphasizes that our personal salvation is worth more than the whole wide world. In other words, even if we are the richest person on earth, the value of all our riches and possessions on earth is still less than the value of one soul. In fact, all that money cannot even buy you and I a pass or ticket to enter the Heavenly gates.

The value of one soul, yours and mine is worth more than all that is in the world.

It is often said that the Lord Jesus would go to the Cross to save you alone, or a few souls. That is how much you and I are worth; we are so very precious in God's eyes.

That is how much your soul and your salvation is worth. It is worth more than gold, rubies and diamonds, and worth more than all the properties in the whole world.

Technically, one should sell everything that one has to 'buy' your soul, if it is lost.

Indeed, our souls were 'lost' and the word is clear that the "wages of sin is death", and we were condemned to 'death.

Romans 6:23 "For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord."

Thus, we thank God that we need not buy back our soul, and that we need not pay for our own redemption, for the price is actually beyond our means to buy back, even if we try to pay. We can never afford to pay for our fine, our ransom, our guilt and our wrong, multiplied so many times since Adam.

For by the Grace of God, through His love and the love of His only Son, Jesus Christ laid down His Life on Calvary, and paid for our souls, redeeming each and every one of us, by the 'Blood of the Lamb of God', a costly purchase indeed.

The Lamb of God was slain to pay for the sins of mankind. What is the cost or price that Father God had to pay? The life and blood of His Son, our Savior Jesus, a value which is way beyond our understanding.

We have been bought for a price, and fully purchased, - owing nothing at all anymore, and fully eligible and rightful to be sons and daughters of the Living God.

1 Corinthians 6:19, 20 "do you not know, you are not your own? For you were bought at a price."

That is the preciousness of your salvation – bought by Jesus Christ on the Cross of Calvary with His Blood Shed, the Blood of the Lamb of God, recognized and accepted by God the Father.

We can now call God, ABBA Father, and Jesus our Lord is now our Friend.

Brothers and sisters, Jesus died for our sins, once and for all, and His Work of Salvation for mankind is "finished", in Greek "Tetelestai!"

He paid fully the ransom, the battle is over, and we are set free.

Let us not take our salvation lightly, as Paul says, "Work on it with trembling", and value it and treasure it, giving thanks to our Lord for His wonderful mercy and grace.

Philippians 2:12 "Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling."

That does not mean that Paul asks us to work hard to get saved, or to pay back what we owe for the precious salvation, as "there is therefore now, no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus" [Romans 8:1]

What he means is that, just as if, you have a very expensive, precious and priceless gift worth millions, - a neckless of diamonds and rubies, for example, will you not hold it with great admiration, and treasure it with your soul trembling away with joy? If then, it is of so much value, for even the Son of God to die for your soul, why should anyone even sell your soul, or trade it in to the devil?

Thus, once we are saved, we must stay forever saved.

Chapter Four The Salvation Package

Have you ever bought a product, whether a car, a stereo-set, or a computer, and made full use of it, using it to the fullest capacity or potential?

You probably have not.

When you become a new member of a club, are you not immediately eligible for all its privileges? Were you not briefed of your privileges, the services available and, were you not welcomed to use all the facilities that are within your privileges? Did you take advantage to use every facility regularly?

Do you know what your full privileges are as a citizen of your country? For example, in many countries, a citizen can write in to apply for land, loans, grants and more, and successfully receive these, - only if they know, and if they apply.

Congratulations, for being a citizen of the Kingdom of Heaven, and as a full rightful member of the club called, - "The Jesus Club."

The privileges are vast, and huge, stretching across the globe and beyond into the Universe. And the membership entrance fee was waived, though there may be a maintenance fee; however, whatever you contribute will be returned to you in full, and often multiplied several folds.

Here are some of the major privileges of the package, which I call "The Salvation Package."

The Privileges in the Salvation Package

(a) Eternal Life with Citizenship into the Kingdom of Heaven

First and foremost, the main privilege and whole purpose of this salvation package is to give you a guarantee and assurance of a full citizenship in the Kingdom of Heaven, the Kingdom of God.

This is similar to your "Birth Certificate" into God's Kingdom. This is the "eternal life" with God our Father.

At the end of the day, when all life of earth terminates, only two things will remain on earth, \- one is the Word of God, and the other the "soul" of man.

John 3:16 refers to eternal life, "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life."

Matthew 24:35 "Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will by no means pass away."

Our life on earth is a short span of 70-120 years, but our soul lives forever with God, our Maker. Thus, `citizenship' into Heaven is the main privilege to be attained and to be strived for during our life time on earth. Citizenship on planet earth is already a natural gift, as soon as we enter the world, though citizenship on earth is based on each nation's criteria.

Citizenship into the Kingdom of Heaven was man's original privilege, till it fell away because of the sin of Adam. It was restored by the Grace of God, when Jesus redeemed mankind on the Cross of Calvary.

The criterion is simple, that we believe and accept Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, because all authority in heaven and on earth has been passed over to the Son. He is the Chief Judge, and The Door to Heaven, the final entry point, as "no one comes to Father except through Him.

John 1:12,13 says: "But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in His name; who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God."

Thus, when we are saved, we are born again securely by the Spirit of God, and we should be safe forever in God's Kingdom, as long as we ourselves do not revoke our passports.

Father God's masterplan was to give us each one a passport. If God has taken so much trouble to do so, and continues to persuade mankind to take the passport for free despite rejection, Father God as The Giver is very unlikely to revoke your passport, if you don't fall or fail. Our LORD promises that He will never fail you nor forsake you. [Hebrews 13:5]

Your name is securely written in the Book of Life. With that, you are now fully entitled to all the privileges as a member and citizen of the Kingdom of Heaven. We can now call God our Father, -ABBA.

Apart from being a citizen in Heaven, we will be blissfully blessed in ABBA's loving Presence, worshipping Him in the beautiful final destination called "Heaven".

Do not let the Thief deceive you, and take away this precious gift.

(b) Marked by God

Once saved by Jesus, you and I are marked, and have in our form, an invisible `Mark' or `stamp', which reads "Belongs to God" or "Owned by God". This mark is none other than the Spirit of Christ, which is the Holy Spirit, who now resides in you.

From a distance of over thousands or millions of miles away, God's eyes or sensors can pick us up as little dots or dusts, marked by Him, as His and His alone. We are so specially marked and protected that the enemy has to stay clear and far away from us, literally, physically and spiritually.

With such an invisible "Mark of the Spirit", it means that wherever we go, we are recognized and marked as God's son or daughter. This mark is seen in the spiritual realm, by the dark forces and they know that we belong to God. This mark has much unseen power as wherever you step into, wherever you put your foot on, it becomes holy ground, and you are protected in all your paths. As the whole earth is contaminated with death, despair, decadence, dung, debris and dirt, your presence can bring a healing presence, deliverance and even a change of destiny just by your mere presence. [Exodus 23:25]

Many entertainment centers use a mark, or a strap or even an invisible `mark' that they can read with a sensor. Many shops use a device to ensure that shoplifters do not take away a product without paying. Cattle owners use marks to prevent hustlers and to avoid disputes with neighboring farmers with their mark. The tattoo industry mushroomed with many flocking to mark their skins with `harmless' designs. In some communities, the women are tattooed with their husband's names on their forearms. In many native communities, men or women when they reach adulthoods receive tattoos as a routine to signify that they have come of age.

Marks have great significance and even power.

In the days of Cain, after he killed Abel, and was banished away, he was protected from being killed by a different mark, a mark that means, "Do not touch this person", not a mark that empowers but a mark of identification, to protect him from being judged and assaulted, for vengeance is for God to mete.

As usual, the copycat who is still around is trying very hard to introduce his mark, the 'mark of the beast', which may soon to be introduced. The scriptures have warned and cautioned believers not to accept the mark, to reject the mark of the beast, as it is from the evil one.

This mark is yet another proof and evidence that in Christ, we are securely His, because we have been bought for a price, (1Corinthians 6.19), and our entry into Heaven is assured once we believe and receive Jesus as Savior.

(c) The Spirit of Christ Lives in Us

More than just for identification, God's Spirit now lives in you as you have been bought with a price, and being purchased by the Blood of Christ; you are marked by this precious and powerful presence, the Spirit of Christ in you.

While in the past, God's Spirit resided in the Ark of the Covenant, now you are literally that Ark as the Ark does not exist anymore. You, the believer, instead of the 'Ark of the Covenant' of the past, have now become the Temple of the Holy Spirit, and hence are a little ark of God.

When we realize that awesome truth that your body and mine is the Temple of the Holy Spirit, will we not treat our body with reverence and keep it holy? What a special privilege and honor for us that the Spirit of God dwells inside us!

The Holy Spirit is actively by your side, a part of you, - your Teacher, Guide and your constant Companion and Helper. Allow Him to guide and lead you, warning you, whispering to you and talking to you, if you tune in.

He will be your daily and constant Counsel. Welcome the Holy Spirit into your thought life. Invite Him to assist you in making decisions, in giving Godly ideas and choosing the right paths.

Being the perfect gentleman, the Holy Spirit will speak only if invited, as a still and small voice. Be still and know God. He resides within you. Are you not aware of all the members in your house, under your roof? Why then do you not communicate with your special Guest of Honor, who is now living in your midst?

Meditate on this and understand the awesome meaning, reality and practicality of this truth. You have not only in your midst, but residing and living inside you, the Spirit of God, - visible both to God and the unseen spirits in around the earth. It is the same Spirit of God that moved and made the whole earth and the heavens, the same Spirit who resurrected Jesus from the dead.

The Holy Spirit is the Living Encyclopedia for the whole universe, knowing and understanding the full depth, breadth, height, structure, content and function of all things that exists on earth. After all, the Holy Spirit was the chief builder, engineer and contractor, present from the beginning until now.

A great Friend, Teacher, Comforter and Counsellor now resides with you, in you! If a Harvard professor of physics is your neighbor, who do you turn to when you have questions about the universe?

Ask anything, pray for anything, in righteousness, in pleading, in humility and sincerity before ABBA God, and asking in the Name of Jesus, the greatest of all name in Heaven and on earth, and it will be given to you as promised.

Yet, many Christians doubt this promise, and cannot hear the voice of the LORD, even though the Holy Spirit lives in them.

Only as recently as a few years back did this author realize this truth, and repented remorsefully, that the Spirit of God inside me had been 'ignored' and not invited as my honored Guest and Counsellor. I then welcomed graciously, and invited wholeheartedly the Holy Spirit fully back into my life, - welcoming the Holy Spirit to be a full part of my thought-life, giving Him full freedom to chip in, interrupt me, chat alongside me, even to tell me off or warn me, whenever I cross the line.

And He has too, in the past. In one of my snorkeling trips off Cairns, Australia, I heard a still small voice twice: "Be careful, be careful." That afternoon, due to sheer carelessness, with just a vest and a snorkel, flippers left behind on the crowded beach, I had drifted out alone in the huge Pacific Ocean. It was by God's grace and mercy that my angels pushed me back to shore in a record mental time of one minute. I had been out for about an hour when that happened. On reaching the shore, I saw legs, and my own legs developed cramps. [This testimony is true and related in my book "The Testimony of Jesus."]

He is the Spirit of the Living God, the same Holy Spirit that moved upon the surface of the Earth and executed God's Word, the same Holy Spirit that resurrected Jesus from the dead, and the same Holy Spirit that heals us of our wounds, our hurts, our sicknesses and empowers us to be a strong child of God.

Rejoice indeed for the Spirit of God resides in you.

(d) Full-Proof Protection

The President of the United States, and many other similar world leaders never walk around alone. They are fully guarded and protected from all sides. Body guards, private detectives, and dozens of intelligence personnel will flood the place of his planned visit, and cover the ground that he is about to go to.

The same applies to you, child of God. I personally believe that almost everyone, i.e. 99.99 per cent of people are protected and safely guarded by their own personal angels, dedicated to them by God, our Father, as a life-time body guard, each person with at least two angels, even for believers.

I believe so for a few reasons, one being that God so loves everyone, and His Word in 2 Peter 3.9 assures us that it is His wish that none should perish; this means that everyone need to be protected from the Thief, who will come to steal, kill and destroy.

If then the ordinary man in the street, the so-called gentile is protected by his personalized angels, will not a child of God, a prince in God's Kingdom receive more and better protection?

For sure, we are already securely marked by the Spirit of Christ, and the Blood of the Lamb, the Blood of Jesus shed on Calvary – the awesome and mighty powerful Blood of Christ, which comes with the mark of the Spirit of Christ.

As the enemy once mocked and said through an innocent soldier, as our Master hung on the Cross for mankind, "why don't you call your army of angels to come and help you?" Thus too, it is true, we can ask for more protection, more help whenever we are in trouble. This is why additional prayer, a cry for help, a call to Jesus – all that can make a difference, as our Father in Heaven, will indeed dispatch an army of angels to help us when we are in need.

Psalm 34:7 says "The Angel of the LORD encamps around all those who fear Him, and delivers them."

Apart from our angels and the Angel of the LORD, we have also been encouraged to put on the "Armor of God", made available to us, as described in the Book of Ephesians. The armor is there for us to put on. Just as we need to pick up a hat, a cane or a revolver, so too the armor of God. Put on the helmet of salvation, wear your breastplate of righteousness, and gird your loins with the spirit of truth, always carry the shield of faith, and cover your feet with the gospel and the enemy's cannot touch you, for indeed "No weapons forged against you can harm you."

(e) A New Creation and a New Character

You are a new creation, and hence have a new nature or character, the moment you receive Jesus as your Savior. Your past or your `old man', your old nature died with Christ Jesus, crucified on the Cross, buried until your resurrection, and a new nature emerges, one which is filled with love, peace and joy, with kindness, gentleness and longsuffering, with goodness, faithfulness and self-control.

You declared it and demonstrated it symbolically when you were baptized, immersed in water, burying your old self, and rising up in resurrected power as you declared that you have put the world behind you, and that you now live for Christ Jesus.

Actually, it is not the world that you have left behind you, because the world still exists and is in fact ahead and in front of you, but rather you have left your old nature behind you, and you are now a new person in Christ.

You are a new creation.

You need to peel off, strip off the old nature in you, layer by layer, till a new skin, a new emerges.

2 Corinthians 5.17, "Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away; behold the new has come."

The new has come! It's true, the new has come! What is the problem, then? Our old habits stay on.

The new furniture has arrived, and you should ask them to take away the old furniture, but you let it remain in the back store room! Your newly wedded bride has come into your life, but you are still reluctant to cut off with your old girlfriends. You have a new job as manager of the richest soccer club in the world, but you are still having soul-ties with your old club. You are royalty, a prince but you still return to the slums, participating in the old nature.

Why should you let hate, anger, bitterness, envy, jealousy, gossip, lust, evilness, deceitfulness, cheating, unfaithfulness, pettiness, selfishness, conniving nature, ungratefulness, sarcasm, negative vocabulary, discouraging nature, cursing habits, vulgarity, licentiousness, flirtatiousness continue to float around your thoughts, your feelings, your heart and your body?

You now have the character of Christ, the mind of Christ, and love of God in you; all your sins have been forgiven, and a whole life of blessedness lies ahead of you: why go back to the old nature, as the word says, going back to `eat' your vomitus.

Proverbs 26.11 – "Like a dog that returns to his vomit, is a fool who repeats his folly."

2 Peter 2.22 says, "What the true proverb says has happened to them: "The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire."

Let us now instead take a good look at the renewed nature in us that comes flowing into our lives, bringing tears of joy as we hear the many testimonies about such changes. The writer of the song Amazing Grace is one such testimony.

So many evil ones, murderers and rapists, many in the death row, even jihadists who have come out alive, born again, and truly repentant, as they give their lives to Jesus.

God's transformation in our lives will manifest the fruit of the Holy Spirit in our new character. It is there in us - "love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control", the fruit as mentioned in Galatians Chapter 5, verse 22-23.

And verse 23 ends with the awesome truth, that against such – the fruit, there is NO law. It is above the law, which means that you can never do wrong by exhibiting, showing, showering the fruit of the Spirit.

In contrast, the works of the flesh is evident, evil and ugly, being adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness (four of the same kind), idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outburst of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries and more, all of which are no more part of you, the born-again Christian, Spirit-filled, water-baptized, and 'tongue-speaking' believer.

Let us look at each of the fruit, one by one.

Love – of course, you have love; there is much love in you. For a start, you should surely love yourself, and love yourself a lot, if not enough. Perhaps, a major flaw of the Christian is that he or she does not love himself enough. Do you not know that the LORD loves you very much, and that you are indeed very lovable? Not loving yourself enough is therefore incorrect, and may lead to a complex of all sorts – an inferiority complex, a lacking in personality, inadequacy, lack of confidence, self-rejection, and hence a weak and emotional person, incapable of doing great things for the LORD.

David, Joseph, Joshua and Daniel and many more all had the confidence to go to war and to survive the trials that they faced because they had confidence in themselves, and certainly loved themselves, or appreciated their own worth.

Do you not know how much your worth is? Your worth and ransom was paid with the life of your Savior Jesus to set you free.

He paid your ransom on the Cross, buying you for a price, - His Life. That is how much you are worth, the full worth of our Savior Jesus.

You must begin to love yourself dearly, preciously today. It is not being narcissistic, not being selfish, but being practical and realistic, factually true to you.

You are indeed a gem, a ruby above rubies, and you should treasure and love yourself dearly, for in you resides the Holy Spirit of God; you are indeed the Temple of the Holy Spirit.

When you love yourself dearly, with all your heart, and all your mind, and all your soul and all your strength, you can now freely and easily love the LORD GOD too, with all your heart, mind, soul and strength, and love your neighbor with the same overflowing quantum and magnitude.

You can begin to act out that love, by sharing, caring, blessing and enjoying others because you begin to see God in them, that life in them, that value in them, that worth in them, because the breath and spirit of God is in them.

With love overflowing in you, you will find the Ten Commandments an effortless set of laws to keep, and it does not apply to you in its harshness, because with love you keep the first five easily as you love God, and your parents, a symbol of the Father in Heaven. Next, because you love your neighbor, jealousy, envy, murder, adultery and lying have no place and role in your relationship with your neighbor.

How can one do evil, think evil and plan evil to one's beloved neighbor?

The fruit like muscles, when you exercise it becomes noticeably and visibly huge. From love, come acts of love, generosity, hospitality and all the other aspects of the fruit pouring out.

Joy or overflowing happiness is indeed one major manifestation of the Christian that comes from the assurance of salvation, of knowing our Savior and having that bubbling excitement that you and I have, because we have a wonderful friend in Jesus.

Joy in our hearts is there, because worry, bitterness, depression, frustration all disappears from us, when we know that God has secured our tomorrow, and Jesus will never fail us nor forsake us, and our place and position in the Kingdom of God is assured.

It is true that sadness and depression should never remain lingering on beyond a short season in a believer's life, even with the most painful losses, because we have a Savior and Comforter with us. Yes, we may be upset, even sad over many situations, including the loss of a loved one, yet we can rejoice in our hearts that we have a good and loving God, who is by our sides in all situations. Also, our joy is eternal because our soul, our life will never perish, and in death, we are with our God and Savior in Heaven.

This joy is us, in you and me is manifested and visible by the naked eye and even felt by others, as people from all walks of life come near us, and interact with us. They will see the joy in us, and the overflowing love and that experience will impact them.

Peace is the next beautiful facet or flavor or fragrance of the fruit of the Spirit, and it is indeed an indescribable calmness within, a kind of assurance, stability, balance, quiet confidence that can be unshakeable even in the midst of the worst trials.

This peace is very special and unique. We see it in the saints of the past, from David, to Joseph, Daniel, Joshua, and to the disciples like Peter and Paul. It is also a frequent item in the prayer of Paul in his epistles as he begins with the prayer asking for the peace of God to be showered upon those he is writing to.

With the peace, love and joy in us, wherever we go, bringing along with us as we walk through life, through even various personal trials, people around us will see it, and will wonder with amazement and even be encouraged when they see that peace in us.

It will open their hearts and minds as they observe us, and they will make observations and comments.

"I see something very special about you."

"There is a certain calmness about you and around you. I am not sure what it is, but I can surely feel it."

"I must say, that though I have just met you, you have a special peace around you."

"I have worked under many bosses, but you are special among them all."

"I have over a thousand staff, yet you stand out as someone unique."

They will wonder quietly, and even some will go further to ask you, "What is it that you have that I do not?"

And they will want it too. This is where, you can share from your heart and say genuine without being offensive, "Since Jesus came into my life, I experience this amazing peace and assurance."

Certainly, the Christian should be emanating forth love, joy and peace, no matter what the circumstances they are in.

Imagine your old self, when you enter the office with anger, bitterness, hatred, jealousy and envy, with tons of frustrations, worries and depression, do you not think that with all the weight that you carry around and bring to your office, that you walk in unnoticed?

No, you are certainly noticeable from a distance and people coming near you then, will feel the oppression, the heaviness and the weight of sorrows and problems around you.

You are instead now an ambassador for Christ, His emissary and His messenger who will bring the Good News to others. When you walk in with "Love, Peace and Joy", even without saying a word, you have created an impact.

Longsuffering is next, as a necessary flavor for the world to experience. Longsuffering, which is about patience, tolerance, forbearance and compassion, comes with a price, as it often necessary for the ones very close to you, either at home or at work. It may take years and years of longsuffering before one sees the `fruit' or reward of living by the fruit of the Spirit.

I recall one particular couple whom I met, where the wife suffered long for over 25 years of marriage, as the atheist husband abused her emotionally, and painfully in other ways too. On one of my encounters with them, I unknowingly touched on a super-sensitive spot by offering to pray for him. He screamed out at the top of his voice, "No, I don't want it. Don't pray for me, I don't want you to pray."

I persisted with compassion, and apologized and assured him that though I would not be praying for him now, I was fasting and praying and would put him on my prayer list.

About three months later, on a follow-up visit, I was delightfully told as he entered in a wheelchair pushed by his dear wife, that "Philip (not his real name) is now born again."

Joy flooded into my heart, and I immediately offered again, "Can I pray for you?"

Nodding with tears in his eyes, he came forward, as I prayed with thanksgiving. What a transformation, because of longsuffering, as the wife testified to the Glory of God. Breakthrough finally came after so many years of prayers and patience.

Our Father in Heaven, God Almighty is indeed longsuffering towards us, for many of our fellow mankind and brethren are truly stubborn, wicked and non-repentant, until God in His timing moves their hearts to repent and believe.

If God was not patient with each of us, we would have long perished in sin and darkness. Because our LORD is so patient with us, we have found Jesus as our Savior.

The next time someone upsets you, steps on your toes, connives against you, abuses or accuses you wrongly, just be patient and remember that God is longsuffering and in your compassion and mercy, as you forgive and pray for your `enemy' they too will be saved one day.

Kindness is a natural part of a good, godly person, especially one who knows Jesus as Savior. If you love your neighbor as yourself, you will naturally be kind to him or her. When we know that we have received so many good things from the LORD, we have no right at all to be unkind.

God loves the poor, the sick, the orphan, the widow and the foreigner, and we should do the same. Faith without works is dead. That means that when we have come to know Jesus and have faith in Him, it is only natural that we do good and perform acts of kindness even though it does not qualify us to become citizens of the Kingdom of God. It is only the right thing to do, or we can consider ourselves as `dead' Christians, or Christians with no life in them.

Goodness is in fact a very unique trait, not present in the fallen man. The fallen mankind is depravity at its worst, when we consider all the heinous thoughts and crime found in man's life. The innocence of a child evaporates when he or she turns from adolescence to adulthood, occurring even earlier and earlier in this present age.

Yet, who then is good? None?

Thus, we can understand when the disciples followed Jesus and called Him, `Good Teacher', he immediately retorted, "Why do you call Me good? No one is good except God alone!"

This verse and great lesson from the Lord Jesus Himself, found in the Gospel of Mark, Chapter 10, verse 17, and 18 tell us two things.

One is that Jesus is God and deserving to be called Good Teacher, because only God is good. Thus, He did not say, "Do not call me good, because I am God." He meant to confirm with the one who asked that he was on the dot to call Jesus, - Good Teacher.

The other lesson is that `no one is good', until we are born again of the Spirit of God. Thus, goodness enters us, as we become a new creation, a new person, and we now carry the goodness of God in us, as God's Spirit now dwells in us.

Indeed, there is goodness in every believer, now that we are renewed in our life as a new creation, with all the features of the fruit of the Spirit.

We are either one or the other. Either good or bad; because we are born of the Spirit of God, we are good, and furthermore a good fruit comes from a good tree, and since we belong to a good Tree, the Vine called Jesus, we are a good branch, producing good fruit, having goodness flowing from our lives to others.

An innocent child knows what is good and what is bad; a child also knows what is right and what is wrong. Hence as a teenager, we can decide and we can know the difference between a good thing and a bad one, a good act and a bad act.

If we apply this principle to our thought life, and to our action, before long we will filter out the bad things that seem to be around, that are not of us, and not of God, and from hence forth, only allow good things to emanate from us. Good thoughts, good words, and good deeds only are the only justified things that should be associated with us.

We will know that this or that is not good or not bad; because the heart knows and the heart and mind can decide. One does not have to be a judge or an experienced jury to know who is right and what is right or wrong.

If then, we can begin to differentiate what is good and what is right, will we not filter out bad things, bad thoughts and bad plans that come along the way, and stop these thoughts, things and plans to have a passage way through our minds, through our feelings and through our lives.

Slowly and surely, it will be so, and everyone around us will know and testify that you or he or I do not do such things.

A clear example is the obstetric doctor who does not perform abortions, because he or she will not terminate life, when life exists in the womb. With time, it will be known to all within the same institution that Dr A or Dr B does not do abortions, and no one will insist that you do, nor will they disrespect your decision to be strongly pro-life.

'Goodness' is clearly of God, for only God is good, as implied by Jesus, when He was addressed as Good Teacher.

It is so clear that a good tree should bear good fruit. Jesus is our vine, and we are the branches, so it is impossible if we are in Christ, it is impossible for us to spew out evil.

Hence, as our Teacher and Master is good, we should try to emulate the Master in doing good works, and we can, because Jesus has confirmed that we will do greater works than Him [John 14.12].

Faithfulness – or trustworthiness, being reliable, responsibility, loyalty, being dependable, is a very special quality of a friend, a Friend like Jesus, who will never fail us nor forsake us. Faithfulness is related to promises and covenants and pledge, for which God Almighty is the first to pledge to mankind, His faithfulness to man, His Creation.

Faithfulness is linked specially to marriage, a pledge of commitment, or love, or not cheating, lying or doing something contrary to the relationship and pledge. God's commitment to us is so very secure and permanent that it is so very special, a covenant and a promise, signed by His Majesty's Seal, forever, forever and forever.

Hence, how can it be otherwise but, that once we are saved, we will be forever safe, or always saved! It is exclusively inclusive, a bond that cannot be broken, a three-cord bond, between Father, Son and you (and I). It is permanent and forever.

That is loyalty and faithfulness.

Hebrews 13.5 says clearly, "I will never fail you nor forsake you."

The more we meditate on faithfulness, the more we realize that it is such a precious and significant commitment to us, as His children; that ABBA Father God in Heaven will always be our ABBA, and will always ensure that we can enter His Promised Kingdom.

It is not an if, not a maybe, not a perhaps, not a `let me see if I can fit you in', but a firm 100% commitment that if you believe in His Son Jesus Christ, you will gain full entry into the Heavenly Kingdom of God, and that all your sins will be washed away, and you will be clothed with a Holy Garment of God, and gain direct entry and access into God's Kingdom. And while you are on earth, you can experience special showers of blessings from our Father, as you ask in the Name of His Only Son, Jesus Christ.

It is such a special value, and of such great importance, that "Faithfulness" is a continuation of the word "Faith", i.e. because of your "Faith" in God, God's Faithfulness will be assured for you.

Once saved, you will be forever safe, safe here on planet earth, and safe in the arms of Jesus, when you depart from earth, and are translated into God's Kingdom in Heaven.

What then about you and I, with regards to faithfulness? It is about what is in your heart, what you say with your lips, the words of pledge and promise, that God having made you in His image, knows that you can be like Him.

It means that as a believer, as a Christian, you are a new creation. You are no longer like a wave being tossed around, or a rolling stone that rolls and rolls, but you are a ship, with a rudder and sails, managed by you, guided by God and His principles applied to your life, and He is the Master planner for you.

Therefore, since faithfulness is a part of you. And when people around you see that faithfulness in you, no matter what you are doing, whatever service you are providing, whatever products you are selling, you are now a trusted servant of God, and you can be depended upon, trusted and people will come and do business with you.

Can you then say that you are uncertain, unreliable and not to be trusted? No, faithfulness has become a part of you, and you will grow truly to be a man or woman of God, one that can be trusted and relied on in all that you do.

Do you now not see that the Christian walks the talk, lives the faith, and does the job! He does not cheat, and does not lie, but delivers and that is why he prospers in all that he does, as God is pleased with Him.

He becomes a living witness in his workplace, and God's Presence is with him, as he applies God's principles of goodness, and shines forth peace and joy, as he serves his customers faithfulness, kindly, and with self-control and great patience, because many of his customers are not like him.

Gentleness, at the first glance will not work in a world of wolves and vultures. City life is tough, many will testify. One has to be street-wise to survive. Out there, there are many conmen, cheats and liars, ready to devour and deceive the meek and gentle.

Yet, we know for sure that the meek will inherit the earth, and meekness will overcome the aggressive and violent ones. Gentleness is a little different from meekness.

Being meek means being gracious and patience, and never to claim your rightful position or authority and always willing to give another person the chance before you. Queuing is a part of civilized modern life. Everyone is expected to queue for their turn. Nobody likes queue cutters, and in some situation, queue cutting may invoke anger and violence from the crowed.

It is jokingly said that in some busy cities, if you queue for public transport e.g. the bus or train in packed cities like Kolkatta on a Monday evening, you may arrive home on Wednesday.

Being meek means never to push your way even if it is your right and next in turn. Meekness implies softness, even weakness, humility, shyness and even a powerless state. It is in fact a very good trait, as we see in Moses, as God described him as the meekest among men at that time. Yet, he rose to be the most powerful leader of that time, eventually feared even by Pharaoh.

Being gentle or gentleness is more than meekness, it emanates a sweet sense of friendliness, harmlessness (won't hurt a fly) and a sense of security, that you will always be safe with this guy, no matter what the situation.

A gentle person may be six and a half feet tall, and filled with bulging muscles, but would never use his strength or might to hurt or bully anyone.

That is what you and I are, dear Christian, we are so very powerful in our position and authority, and yet, we must not hurt a `fly', let alone bully anyone around us.

This gentleness is so secure and confident that even a big bully, twice our size will think twice or thrice before he attempts to push you around. There is in fact awesome strength around a gentle Christian, because God fights for you, and your angels are all around you.

You are like Clark Kent, with the power of a `superman', but you will not use it, while you are wearing the clothes of Clark Kent.

This leads us to the last and ninth fragrance of the same fruit, \- self-control.

Self-control is indeed another awesome character trait in the believer, that we can and should develop. God gives us the wisdom, strength and compassion to act with caution, and with self-control.

The Word of God in 2 Timothy 1.7 says that God has not given us a spirit of fear, but one of love, power and self-control, [ESV version]. The New King James Version talks of us having power, love and a `sound mind', in place of self-control.

We are reminded one verse earlier to 'stir up' or 'to fan into flame', the gift of God, which is in you, through the laying of hands. This means that all the gifts are there for you to claim, enable and through prayer by the laying of hands, and through exercising the gifts, it will flame into a major fire to be used as a blessing, so that everyone from a distance can see it.

The three components in us, that God has given us is love, power and self-control. It is as though, we have been given into our hands the most powerful weapon on earth, the most practical and effective tool of self-defence, e.g. a machine gun, and with this very powerful weapon comes two other gifts that make us handle this very powerful weapon with justification, one being love and the other being self-control.

Self-control means that we are to restrain ourselves so that we do not release this power that will cause or inflict harm to others, even kill them. Self-control is necessary, so that we have the maturity, the wisdom and ability to know when best to use such awesome power.

Do you now see the new awesome character and nature in you, one that is overflowing with love, joy, peace together with amazing patience, goodness and gentleness, apart from being extremely kind, faithful and self-control?

What a gem, a jewel of a person you are or have become – a shining and beaming beacon to the world, reflecting such awesome Christ-likeness, that will draw all men and women to God.

From the fruit of the Spirit, one Godly fruit with nine awesome Godly characteristics, we move to the nine separate powerful gifts of the Holy Spirit.

(f) The Abundant Life

The gospel of John Chapter 10, verse 10 is a very powerful and popular verse, very often preached from the pulpit, and quoted victoriously as one of the greatest promises that our Lord and Savior has given us.

The second part of this famously popular verse states what Jesus Himself said, "I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly."

Jesus came to give us life, and not only `life' in the positive and powerful sense, but He gave it to us, this precious in abundance. This is indeed a very powerful promise that the Lord and Savior has given to all of us, who believe in Him, and have received Him into our lives.

He came not just set us free from bondage and captivity, but also to ensure that we have full access to the blessings of God, that we have free passage into the Kingdom of God, as Jesus exhorts us to 'Enter the Kingdom of God!'

He came to give us, every one of us, this precious life on earth, in its fullness – an abundant life.

What then does an abundant life really mean?

It means exactly what it means - a life of abundance.

Abundance means plentiful – a lot; abundance means that there is no lack -no drought, no famine, no hunger, no despair, no shortage; abundance means that there will not situation of deprivation, no need to cry and pray for the basic amenities and provisions for living; it means that the believer and his household, will have all his wishes and desires met, and have overflowing funds, food and resources.

Question: "Are you living a life of abundance?"

From the time you have come to know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, is your life different from the life prior to that? Is your life one that is full of frustration, full of struggles, full of despair?

In actual fact, you should be living a life of abundance. God has made it possible for you to take control of your situation, so that you are always free, free from worries, free from debts, free from death!

"Death, where is your sting!?" This implies that the power of salvation is to set free, to bless with an abundant life, and push death aside.

Why then are there so many so-called weak or defeated Christians? Yes, they can be meek, humble, soft-spoken and weak, and just watch while the Thief comes to steal, kill and destroy, and snatch away victory from their midst.

That's why the first part of the verse in John 10:10 says that "the Thief comes to steal, kill and destroy", whereas Jesus came to give us this abundant life.

That perhaps, may be one of the clues as to why one is living a life that is always in need, always lacking and suboptimal. Your supply has been cut off or channeled elsewhere. Even before the supply reaches you, someone nasty comes and subtly what is yours is taken away or stolen by none other than the thief.

Are you indeed living a life in which all that is being sent to you is being snatched away, or snipped and shipped away, taken illegally by the thief even before or just or just before it arrives at your postbox; a common story is that you may find that you have not received an important mail in your postbox; yet a quick check may reveal that, that mail is sitting in your neighbor's postbox!

What is rightfully yours, is snatched away, and now sitting somewhere else in another house in another street. That may be a regular phenomenon that I believe that is happening quite often, so that it is therefore important to ensure that what is yours is yours, and what is rightfully yours is not taken away from you.

Unless you ensure that all that was meant for you, the riches and inheritance deemed due to you, it can be snatched away. The abundant life becomes yours, when you receive the blessings from the Father, as we read from the book of Deuteronomy, in Chapter 28. When we diligently obey the voice of the LORD, our God, to observe carefully all His commandments which He commands to us today, then the LORD GOD will set us high above all the nations of the earth.

All these blessings shall come upon us, and overtake us, because we obey the voice of the LORD, our God.

Blessings of abundance will be with us in the city, as well as in the country; Blessings of abundance will be the fruit of our body, in the produce of the ground, our farming, - in the increase of our herds, the farm animals, and its off-springs, even our tools will be blessed abundantly, and every movement of ours, our going in and our going out will be blessed.

Such is our abundant blessings, that we will be divinely protected, so that our enemies will be defeated before our very presence, and even if they try to attack us, they will be dispersed in all (seven) directions.

GOD will personally ensure abundant blessings in our storehouses, or in its modern version, our bank accounts, and whatever we set our hands on, whatever our venture, it will succeed.

Both Deuteronomy 28.8 and the third Letter of John, Chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, refer to the same blessings. The land which we reside in will be blessed, as it is the land that God has given us.

We will be established as God's Holy people, as He has sworn, when we keep the commandments of God, and live an upright and Godly life.

We will then be living witnesses for God, as all the peoples on earth will see that we, the Christians are blessed, as we are called by His Name; and they will fear us.

Deuteronomy 28.10 states that very clearly.

Our provisions will be abundant, our produce increase, our live-stock (stocks and shares!) multiply, even our families will grow in numbers, even as GOD, our LORD opens the Heavens and showers down His treasures on us.

In our abundance, we will be lenders, not borrowers. We will be in charge, as bosses, not as workers, are on top, not below, if we obey God.

Clearly, the enemy has no chance at all against us, if we walk in accordance to the way of the Lord, and then all the above blessings will come to us, as we live a life, of blessings upon blessings.

The subsequent verses state that we may face a totally different life, from the one that God has destined for us, if we do not obey.

Thus, the key is that once saved, we are forever safe, if we obey and follow in the way of the LORD. If we turn from God, then naturally, disaster may befall us, and when we fall in the ditches, and repent before God, He will rescue us.

In simple terms, an abundant life, one of plenty in supplies i.e. plenty of food plenty of clothes, assurance of shelter and a place to lay down your head, wherever you go, is ours to receive.

All these are rightfully ours, for our Father in heaven is the richest person on planet Earth, and He owns all the cattle on the hills, or very single hill, along with whatever is in the air and the sea; indeed, He is the richest person on planet Earth.

The other son, other than the prodigal son, the one who did not leave, was told by the Father, in the book of Luke, Chapter 15 verse 30 very clearly, "Son, all that I have is yours!"

Our Father's reply was to this son, who complained about the lavish spending on the `Prodigal Son', whose return had overjoyed the Father.

That is part of the Master Key to wealth and riches, because our Father God is the richest and all powerful landlord and Master on earth; the key or master key that will release the great wealth and distribute it is clearly pointed out upon us

This is the key that is found in the book of Luke, Chapter 16, verses 10, 11 and 12. Jesus, who is speaking, declares in verse 11, "Therefore, if you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon (money), who will commit to your trust, the true riches."

Jesus continued in verse 12, "And if you have not been faithful in what is another man's, who will give you what is your own?"

It is so important for us to be trustworthy before God, to prove that we can handle the true riches which will be added to us, and showered upon us, in due time.

I believe this is the Master Key, that the moment we are accountable and responsible to the little that God has given to us, only then will He release to us, the abundance due to us.

(g) The Spiritual Gifts

The spiritual gifts, the gifts of the Spirit are well defined and described in the book of Corinthians, Chapter 12.

There are nine gifts of the holy spirit listed in order, i.e. the gift of word of wisdom, gift of word of knowledge, the gift of faith, the gift of healings, also the gift of working of miracles, the gift of prophecy, the discerning of spirits, gift of various kinds of tongues and the gift of interpretation of tongues, all given for the ministry of the body of Christ, not for personal glory.

How this is linked to the Baptism of the Holy Spirit is not clearly stated, but the Baptism of the Holy Spirit and Fire by our Lord Jesus Christ will manifest with tongues, joy and the works of the Holy Spirit, particularly as we see in the various gifts.

Do wait upon the Lord to receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit.

For some, it comes easily and naturally, while for others, we need to seek and wait upon the LORD, and often when prayed over by men and women of God, the process of being filled with the Spirit of God happens.

How can anyone ever say that he has enough already or that he has already got it, when there is so much to receive, and when even men and women of God seek for more every day?

Do not fear that someone evil laying hands on you will send evil spirits into you. Of course, by all means, do check on who the person is praying for you, and most of the time, you will be blessed.

Paul began by saying, "Now, concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be ignorant".

So, the truth is that it is from God, and for you to receive freely, when you ask and desire it for ministry. This means that it is very much a part of our Christian walk, and we need not only to know about these gifts, but to receive it and use it in ministry for the glory of God.

The diversities of the gifts, are of the same spirit, for different ministries from the

same God, for us to ask so that we can receive.

Jesus said before His departure to Heaven, that it was better that He ascended to Heaven so that our Father can send to us the Holy Spirit.

In John 16, verse 7, Jesus said, "Nevertheless I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Helper (Holy Spirit) will not come to you, but if I depart, I will send Him to you."

Apart from gifts, the Holy Spirit of God is God's Third Person, our Helper, Comforter, Teacher and the same Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead.

John 16, verse 13 explains: "He is the Spirit of Truth, and He will guide us into all truth; for He will not speak on His own authority, but whatever He hears, He will speak; and He will tell you things to come."

(h) Using the Powerful Name of Jesus

God has given us the powerful Name of Jesus for prayer and requests.

Man is flesh and mind, with a spirit soul within us. We live in the physical realm, but effectively, it is the spirit realm that matters.

God said and it was so.

The animal kingdom knows it, and Psalm 104 describes how the young lion, mighty and strong roars after its prey and "seek its food from God". Likewise, the great sea creatures, the whale and others swim effortlessly, consuming food along the way. They too know that if God withholds the food, they will perish.

God has empowered us with a powerful force, and that is the Name of God.

Long, long ago, the king would use a ring, or a seal, or a scroll or a scepter to represent his authority, through his officers. The men and women in the streets would hear of a new decree that the king has imposed on the people.

But now, our King has allowed us to use His Name, so that when we ask in His Name, it will be granted by our Father in Heaven.

We must therefore honor His Name, for it is the most powerful Name on earth and in heaven- the Name of Jesus, so that whatever we ask Father in the Name of Jesus, it will be done.

(i) The Word of God

The Word of God, which is the Holy Bible is the most precious gift for the Christian, for without it, we are literally lost.

In it is the "Word of God" literally and figuratively: what God has been saying to mankind from the beginning of time. In it are the full manual and instructions for life, the reference and list of laws and statutes – The Holy Bible.

It is now the best book, the best collection of books ever, and the number one book in the world, in terms of the most number published, printed and in circulation.

If there is one book that every man and woman must read, it is the Holy Bible.

There is no other way to grow in the faith except through the Word of God. When you know the Word of God, and receive from it the truth, you will not only be set free, but be truly empowered with the knowledge of the Truth.

The need to read and study the Holy Bible and be enriched by the Word of God cannot be overemphasized. Believers who are not well informed of the Word of God are weak.

Hosea 4:6 says "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge."

This is a very precious gift within the wonderful gift of the "Salvation Package", a treasure within the Treasure Box.

Read it, love it, be soaked in it, as your manual for life, love and living.

(j) Your Beautiful Mansion in Heaven

This is our Father's promise that He has prepared for each one of us a beautiful mansion with our names on it, all ready to receive us in our very own mansion, when we arrive Home with Father God.

John 14:2 "In My Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you."

We cannot receive it yet, or even see it, but it is mind boggling and if we could really see it, many of us would rather move over.

Heaven is clearly a far better place, and earth is no comparison, for on earth there is filth, depression, even hell and a 'living death' for many, as many are destitute and defeated, for on earth deception flourish, while murder, crime, robbery and rape are rife. Of late the Coronavirus pandemic has swept through every nation, and the ugliness of mankind continues to surface with racism and hatred being so rampant, with the death of George Floyd being just the tip of the iceberg in this world.

Yet, as a new or matured believer, we can still shine for our Master and claim the "abundant life" in our midst, and show the world the Truth in Jesus.

Chapter Five What to do with the Package?

Step No.1: Keep your Salvation securely safe.

The most important principle when you have come to know that Jesus is Lord, is that once you have declared Jesus as your Savior and invited Him into your life, you should remain forever saved.

You have to keep the truth of your salvation safe and secure, by staying with Jesus, guarding your heart and mind, so that you do not lose this truth, or allow anyone to steal it from you – the fact that Jesus is Lord and the Son of God.

No one can rob you of this truth, and they are powerless to do so, if you do not allow them to do so.

Your ticket to Heaven is already secured in your hands, in the pocket or the wallet of your heart. If you have purchased a train ticket for you trip, an expensive one e.g. on a Shinkansen or Euro rail rapid train, - in this case purchased by Jesus on the Cross and given free to you, do you not ensure you keep it safely with you, so that when the ticket officer comes, you can show it to him? You will surely not be careless to lose it or misplace it.

Your name is already written in the Book of Life, and it cannot be so easily erased, not by any human or even spiritual effort of others, except by the deliberate withdrawal by the owner of the name. The LORD definitely will not delete your name, as He has gone through so much trouble, - blood, sweat and tears to redeem your life.

There should be no doubt to the fact that your salvation is forever secure. Phrased in another way, the title means, "Once you are saved, you can be sure that you are forever secure that you will make it to Heaven, if you take some simple precautions to safeguard your heart."

Do not let the thief steal it from you. He cannot if you do not give him a chance.

This passport does not need renewal, nor need you pay any more fees. Your name is already written in the Book of Life. It is an official 'Royal Pardon', stamped by the 'Blood of the Lamb' and 'Sealed by the Holy Spirit'!

You are now in fact an ambassador of the Living God, and have full diplomatic immunity, free to travel all over the world as God's diplomat.

You are now a born-again Christian, with a new character – live it. Stay firmly in the LORD, by living a Christian life.

Step No.2: Grow in the Knowledge of the Word of God

Know the Word of God and grow in it. Apart from the eternal life, the Holy Bible is the most precious gift on earth for mankind. It is the best book, or collection of books ever written, and the number one best seller in the world.

Every believer must treasure it as the greatest gift to mankind, after eternal life. Read it, know it, understand it and grow in it.

If one sets our hearts to read and receive from it, the Holy Spirit together with the abundant references, and men of God, you can grow into a wise man or woman of God. It may take a few years, but the effort and the benefits are huge.

The Holy Bible is a lamp to your feet, a guide to your path of life. [Psalm 119:105]

"Your Word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path."

There are dozens of powerful verses that speak to your soul and should remain there, securing your faith, and placing it on a solid foundation, on a ROCK, and that ROCK is JESUS CHRIST.

Romans 8:1 "For example, there is therefore no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus."

Acts 4:12 "Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved."

The list goes on. The Bible is God's love letter to mankind. Read it from page to page, starting from Genesis to Revelation, read it like a novel and that may take a few months. Then, alongside that reading, read book by book, alternating from Old Testament and New Testament. At the same time, you may do a topical study, using a good reference like Nave's or on your smartphone Bible. You may also search a word and read verses around that.

If you are really committed and serious to go into pastoral ministry, then a qualification will help you get into a 'job' as a pastor. You need to know which theological college is recommended by the denomination in which you are going to serve. This author has just started on an online seminary called Tyrannus Online. Try it.

How can one profess to be a Christian when one has not really read the Word of God? Of course, not every Christian will become totally knowledgeable in the Word of God, but every Christian should know the basic truths and doctrines in the Word of God, which is the Holy Bible.

The word of God is clear that we need knowledge, knowledge of the scriptures, knowledge of our Savior and knowledge of the works of the saints, to guide us in our Christian path.

Hosea 4:6 "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge."

Step No.3: Be a member of a church & fellowship

The local church will help you understand the "Salvation Package", and take you on a journey as you grow in your faith in the LORD.

Be a part of a fellowship or cell. When you are in a church and a fellowship, with other believers, they will not only watch over you, but guide you along.

The Christian cannot be alone, as a silent believer, cut off or separated from the rest of the world. He or she must have friends to fellowship with. Thus, being a member of a fellowship is very important. It may be true again that there is no perfect fellowship, but for sure, there will be good and genuine Christians in a fellowship.

Being a member of a church makes you a member of the body of Christ. There may be no perfect church, or best denomination, but it is far safer to be a member of a church than none.

All the accepted denominations are all right, as long as they teach and preach Jesus Christ as the Son of God, and the Trinity of God; you will be safe there. This list is not complete but would cover most accepted denominations i.e. Catholic, Anglican, Presbyterian, Lutheran, Methodist, Protestant, Pentecostal, Assembly of God, Evangelical Churches, Charismatic Churches, Four Square and several others.

This author goes to a local evangelical and charismatic church called "SIB" or short for Sidang Injil Borneo, which means Congregation of the Gospel, in Borneo.

The Seven Day Adventist churches are also Bible based with some differences with the above churches. The Latter Rain churches are also Bible based and different from the Latter-Day Saints churches, mentioned here separately as the name can be confused with the latter group, which in not mainstream Christianity.

This author's view of the Jehovah Witnesses is that while most of the Bible teachings and interpretation of the Scriptures are correct, their rejection of the Divinity of Jesus Christ puts in question where the Son of God stands in their faith.

Jesus is God, - the Son of God, and Savior of the World and Salvation is through Jesus. There is no compromise on this for the Christian.

Step No.4: Seek Water Baptism

Once in a church, seek water baptism by full emersion. Water baptism is very, very important. This author believes in full emersion in baptism. Baptism is in fulfillment of the word, in obedience to the word to believe and be baptized. It is also a declaration to the world that you are a believer in Jesus Christ, having repented and received the Lord Jesus as your Lord and Savior.

Of great importance is a declaration to the devil that you belong to Jesus.

"Lay off, as this one belongs to Jesus!"

It may not stop the adversary from giving you trouble, but he knows who you belong to and he will lay off, when you resist him. At least, he cannot accuse you before God that you are disobedient and not yet 'truly saved' because you have not been baptized.

Step No.5: Maintaining a Daily Prayer & Quiet Time

Having your own daily prayer and quiet time is a good step forward in your Christian life and walk. James 4:8 says that as we draw close to God, He will draw close to you. As you set aside time for God, He will be there and He will show up as the Unseen Guest and Master.

Something good will come out of one who locks himself or herself in for a period. God watches us closely, especially those who dedicate special time for Him. The quiet time is for dedicated prayer and Bible study, as well as meditating on the Word of God.

When you arise early in the wee hours of the morning, when all is quiet, and your mind is clear and not distracted, you are ready to receive from the LORD. You are secure and well protected when you dwell with things of the LORD and stay away from other sources of information.

If there is a mentor, a pastor or shepherd who will walk alongside in your journey, it would be good.

God will certainly reward your faithfulness even as you soak yourself in the Word, in prayer and in worship.

Step No.6: Attending Conferences, Camps and Retreats

Being open and free to attend conferences, seminars, camps and retreats and listening to good tapes, videos and recordings will grow you into a mature Christian.

I will categorically say that just listening to one sermon a week in your own church will not be enough. I will also say that shepherds who prevent their flock to go and feed from another farms will lose their sheep when the sheep tastes the good food next door.

Has anyone matured into a man just by staying home to listen to the words of Papa, even though Papa is the best teacher in the world?

Do attend camps, seminars, and conferences – good ones, and learn to discern, and counter check with your pastor, your mentors.

This author believes that all the teachings from different seminars and conferences has contributed in aligning him with the purpose or will of God in his life.

Step No.7: Prayer and Counsel by Elders & Others

It makes a lot of difference when you seek prayer and counsel from your pastor, elder and other men or women of God.

Some can give you a word of knowledge, words of wisdom, revelation and even personal prophetic word on your life. Check on it, pray and meditate and you will be blessed.

Are you afraid that some of them are 'wolves' in sheep skin? Will you be misled by wolves out there? Remember, no wolf can touch you and you can discern them by a simple question, "Show me your teeth!" Wolves and sheep have different teeth (joking here).

Having a mentor or mature brother or sister guide you along in your early walk with God is a good step forward. Every new believer by right should have a dedicated mentor or mature member guiding them along for the first year or two at least. This is covered in a later paragraph below.

Step No.8: Baptism of the Holy Spirit and Gifts

Enough have been said, taught, argued and debated over this issue, and churches have been split by it.

Gifts are good, and it is the Holy Spirit who gives.

Why have you not received? Is the Holy Spirit miserly? Is it because you are not going to be among those who will receive, anyway? No, the Word of God is clear that our Heavenly Father gives the Holy Spirit freely to all who asks. For that reason, the Words of Jesus recorded in the Gospel of Luke urges us to ask, seek, knock, and God will give the Holy Spirit to us.

The answer is in you and I.

Do you wish to have more of God? For sure, it will be a blessing to you.

The answer is "Yes", for it will be a blessing to you, when you experience the baptism of the Holy Spirit and are released in tongues. When you seek with all your heart from the LORD, and are really hungry and thirsty for more, you will definitely receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit.

In my opinion, unless we humble ourselves, and put aside our doctrinal beliefs, and seek from the LORD, it will be difficult to receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit.

I have been blessed by being baptized in the Holy Spirit for 35 years now. Has it made me more holy? No, because being more holy is a personal choice and a passion. Yet, I may even say 'yes', as the Spirit gives me more insight to overcome sin. Is it a blessing? Of course, if you know who is the One who blessed you, how can we cast doubts as to whether the gifts are good for us.

When I sought it in the early years, I did not receive it for a season. I sought and sought, and the LORD spoke to me. After I dealt with my past, including a photograph that identified my past sins with other gods, I was ready and open to receive from the LORD.

I appeal with all readers to seek and to receive the Holy Spirit, filling you, overflowing through you. This is very much a part of the Salvation Package, available to all who believe.

It is not about being charismatic or not. It is about you. All the authors of the books in the Bible were filled with the Holy Spirit. Why not you?

Paul says not all will receive it; of course, because there are many, who do not really seek the baptism of the Holy Spirit, because you think you already have it, and the denomination you are with teaches and practices so, to refrain from "the use of tongues in speech or worship." Many denominations are also adamant that miracles do not happen anymore, and teach their flock that. Yet, our God is a God of miracles and miracles are happening every day. To know God and receive the Lord Jesus as Savior is already a miracle in itself.

I believe that when James said that faith without works is dead, he is actually saying "Faith without showing the works of God" is dead. And the works of God, taking place every day are miracles.

Step No.9: A Living Faith, Drawing Close to God

Faith like a mustard seed grows with time. When you begin to walk in your faith as a Christian, you will begin to see God moving in your life.

In a normal relationship, for example between parent and child, the bonding is strong because it has grown over the years, best seen between mother and child. The limitless love, endless care, boundless patience all add up to a strong relationship that cannot be broken.

On one Mother's Day Celebration, a Sunday when I was preaching, I asked a question to everyone present and urged everyone to answer out aloud the same answer.

The question, "Who is the most wonderful person in your life?"

They shouted out simultaneously in unison, the same answer: "My mother!"

And that is universally true for everyone, that no other person is more precious to you or me, apart from your or my mother.

So too, in our relationship with God. I have an answer when asked by those who challenge my faith with the question below:

"How can you be so sure that Jesus Christ is true?" And many will ask with a sincere and genuine seeking heart.

Many will answer and say, "Because the Bible tells us so."

My answer is always, "Because I have known Jesus for 38 years now, and I have walked with Him, and He with me throughout all that time."

I can follow through that statement with confirmation from the believers around me, often placing my palm flat on my chest over my heart, with an affirmation, "I know because I know."

Likewise, when we give a testimony of our lives, we cannot be disputed, because that is our personal testimony. For the serious and sincere one who is searching, I will continue by saying:

"Well, as it is recorded in history, there was a teacher, and the founder of Christianity called Jesus, and he existed just as Plato, Socrates, Buddha, and Confucius existed a few hundred years before. If we believe that all those great men and teachers came before Jesus, why not believe that there was a man called Jesus?"

"Up until now, there is no religion that condemns Jesus. All of them accept Him as a great and good teacher.

Even senior Jewish council members of the time of Jesus, came to believe that Jesus is a good teacher, and many called Him Rabbi.

So, my dear Christian, walk and talk with the Lord Jesus, for He is our Friend. You will find that He is real and indeed walking beside you, and He will never fail you nor forsake you.

His promise is there in Psalm 16:8 (at your right-hand side), and Hebrews 13:5 (will never leave you nor forsake you) and Matthew 28:20 (Lo, I am with you till the end of age.)

You will begin to hear God's voice. Many of us hear His Voice in different situations. In my own experience, He will answer when I call or ask, and when I persist and ask fervently, an answer will come within a few days, usually two to three.

I am not being judgmental but the LORD speaks and answers when you call upon Him, when you walk with the LORD for years. God will speak to you when you call Him, because He hears and He is alive.

Some will see Jesus, face to Face. I have not yet seen my Lord, but I know that He is beside me, as promised in the Word. On three occasions, the Lord Jesus was seen besides me. In another two, He appeared in my dream.

Yes, many will experience dreams and visions from the LORD. How will one know that these dreams are from God? One is that you, the dreamer will know and secondly, when you relate to others, they will confirm to you that these dreams are from the LORD.

As you draw near to God, He will guide you in many areas and practices. For example, fasting, praying, seeking Him, obeying Him all will come into place when we draw near to God.

Step No.10: Seeking Mentors

I truly wonder why there is no direct mentoring or proper guidance for the young believer. When one wants to do a thesis for a PhD or doctorate study, or even a Masters, there will be a supervisor, or mentor assigned to you.

For the young Christian, it is supposed to be the pastor, or maybe the cell leader, who will guide and shepherd you. Prayerfully, this is being done in all churches, that the shepherd or someone appointed by the main shepherd guides and lead the young sheep safely in his journey across the fields, where wolves and foxes roam freely.

It does take time to guide, teach and mentor, a responsibility like parenting and being a guardian, to that the baby grows from a toddler, to a child to teenager and young adult in Christ. When the church grows beyond a hundred, a personal watch over every member will be difficult, and cell leaders have to come in to follow up and monitor the young believer.

There are marital counselling programs that take a believer through six months before the actual marriage dates. Most couples have found this helpful. A mentoring program with the same intensity and focus will help the young believer through his or her 'infant years' in Christ.

My own church SIBKL has membership criteria for the new believer who intends to be a member to undergo a series of classes before they can apply to be a member. While this is indeed a good way to encourage the serious Christian to be guided in receiving the basic foundational truths in the faith, the one-to-one mentoring may have an added advantage.

Mentors, especially good dedicated mentors are not easy to find and one may need to move from mentor to mentor. We know of musicians and artists who spend some time with an expert and famous performer or artists, learning from them their art and skills, before developing their own styles.

Paul said, "Imitate me, as I imitate Christ."

Thus, one way is to follow and go along with that man or woman of God, in the field, even in their homes, watching them and being guided by them. In the Chinese forms of martial arts called Kung Fu, we hear of many stories that the student has to follow the master for years, before he teaches him the art, and in stages too. This is probably because the master looks for character and attitude, before imparting his precious knowledge to the student.

Ideally, every newcomer and new believer should be assigned to a mentor and teacher, and within two to four years, the student or new believer should be ready to move on to the next level.

Step No.11: Serving and Ministry in the Field

The child of God is now taking solid food, and no more being breastfed or on milk alone. He or she may be a two or three-year old Christian. He is now a toddler.

Many 'young' believers out there will say that "I am a young Christian. Only five years old."

This to me is a great mistake. In biological age, we are young if only five years of age, and still in our teens till we are eighteen, and under parental guidance and instruction perhaps up to twenty-one.

What about spiritual growth? When does one mature as a Christian?

There may be no clear number, but the best example is in the child Jesus, who at about twelve or so, when he could minister to the rabbis in the synagogue.

Perhaps, a Christian is young when he or she is two to three years in Christ. I believe that with good guidance, teaching and mentoring, one as young as four years in the LORD can be a young leader, a youth pastor.

However, the background is important. If the child grew up in a Christian environment e.g. in Sunday School, whose parents are pastors, and his or her real commitment came at age fifteen, by the time he is eighteen, he or she can be an effective leader, teacher and pastor, though not yet fully mature.

If he came from the world, and is already in leadership, as a CEO and professional, perhaps three years of intensive growth can make him a good teacher, leader, even a trainee pastor, for a further two or three years.

It does seem to take about three to six years for maturity and stability as a leader, teacher and pastor, and perhaps another six to qualify to be a senior pastor, and maybe another six before one can think of being a bishop.

What about the mature Christian? Can he fall? This author believes that it is too presumptuous for anyone to declare that he or she will never fall or fail. The reason is very clear, and we have seen it in the Bible and in life.

Peter said that he would never deny Christ and he did, three times. Of course, we know that it was meant to be so, that only the Messiah should die alone and not with His disciples, but then, it happened. And, with so much remorse, Peter wept.

Many big names have fallen in sin, and personally saw their ministries crash and congregation vanish. Let us be humble, and never boast that we will never fail Him nor forsake Him, but it is the LORD who will never fail nor forsake us. [Hebrews 13:5]

We can rejoice in that and declare that, while working out our salvation with trembling. The LORD's Prayer reminds us and reminds the LORD, to help us "not be led into temptation but to be delivered from evil."

Sin is just outside our door, waiting for the slightest opportunity to 'devour' us, and tempt us, but the adversary is powerless, when we stay under God's Divine umbrella of protection.

So, what should we do? Draw close to the LORD, and He will draw close to us. [James 4:8]

Step No.12: Tithing and Generosity

As we receive freely, we will learn that charity, love, generous giving and good works are all part of the Christian life as our works grow alongside with our faith. Tithing or giving 10% of your earnings is not tax, but giving back to God what is His, while you keep the 90% which is what God gives you.

As one's heart opens to give and bless others, we will begin to have a Father's heart to give, help and bless others.

No one can out give God. After all, everything is His, and we are just merely God's stewards.

These are just some of the possible areas for the young believer and the mature one to be well grounded in one's faith, to grow in the Lord and stay firmly under His wings.

Chapter Six Jesus Came to Set Us Free

Jesus declares His mission, amongst which is to set the captives free.

Luke 4.18, Jesus said: "The Spirit of the LORD is upon Me, because He has anointed Me, to preach the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed; to proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD."

That is an awesome truth, that we have been set free or liberated from oppression and captivity, through Jesus' awesome mission when He died on Calvary for our sins.

Being saved and being free are totally two separate situations or conditions. Remember that you were once in sin, and in captivity. Jesus came to release you from that bondage, to remove your chains, so that you are now set free.

That situation of being free also allows you to be simultaneously saved in the Kingdom of God, and proclaimed now as His child, a child of God.

For unless you are set free, you cannot rejoice that you are saved! Thus, being set free from bondage is the first step before one is saved.

Yet, the sinner that is saved sometimes returns to sin again, or remains seemingly in bondage and captivity!

As long as one continues to go back, to back track, one cannot go forward and be victoriously set free.

Proverbs 26.11 says, "As a dog returns to his own vomit, so a fool repeats his folly."

Thus, for one category of believer, it may be that without knowledge, without proper teaching, he or she falters and goes back to sin.

You were once in squalor, in mud, in sin, in situations of insanity and madness, with chains and the captors around you, but now you are free and free in Christ Jesus.

Your first step is to get out and leave that squalor and madness and run away from it. Never go back to that old situation, unless you have fully recovered, strengthened and emboldened to return to help others, not to reenter to be trapped again into sin, drug, addiction and insanity.

Galatians 5.1 says, "Stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with a yoke of bondage."

And again, in the same book, further down in Galatians 5.13, "For you, brethren, have been called to liberty; only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another."

And again, in 1 Peter 2.16, "as free, (or being free from captivity) yet not using liberty as a cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God."

There are various forms of captivity. Captivity of the flesh or body is most commonly seen in addiction to drugs. Years and years of addiction into heroin, cocaine and other substances drain the physical form of an individual till he may be just skin and bones.

Alcohol also is a notorious agent of social captivity and addiction. The heavy drinker is often made destitute, being unable to work or function, as the `bottle' of spirits preoccupied him night and day, between being soberly drinking and being somberly asleep when heavy in the spirits.

God, through Jesus Christ enables them to give up totally and effectively. On a more minor scenario, there are milder addictions like smoking and marijuana.

Then, there are other forms of physical bondage, including the lust of the flesh, from young to old, being sex, fornication, adultery and pornography. These are all follies that many innocent ones are trapped into.

One can literally be enslaved by such traps, prostitution being the industry where millions of young ones become trapped into.

Because of the damage physically, emotionally, psychologically and of course financially, the captive though free, starts at square one, and has a long way before he or she is in really solid ground.

There are many ministries that house such people, i.e. drug addicts, gamblers, prostitutes or wayward girls, and alcoholics.

It is like the prisoner who has just been set free. They stand bare outside the prison gates free, but many have lost their jobs, their families and their finances, and have no place or home to go. If their faith is weak, the prisoner will go back to crime.

Thus, the sinner who is now a young believer, who is now set free from bondage whether drugs, or gambling, will still need help to take him in as build him up till he or she can fend for himself or herself again.

Apart from such physical captivity, there are many subtle and obvious situation situations of oppression and captivity of the mind and emotions.

Phobias, obsessiveness, and personality traits are all entwined as captives of the mind, that Jesus came to set us free. He came to renew our mind, to give us the mind of Christ, and to reaffirm that we have a sound mind.

Romans 12:2 "And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God."

1 Corinthians 2:16 "For 'who has known the mind of the LORD that he may instruct Him' But we have the mind of Christ."

2 Timothy 1:7 "For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind."

The above three verses are God's Word and the truth. Yet, many suffer from issues of the mind, psychological problems and personality problems, apart from severe psychiatric illnesses and psychosis.

The word is clear: Jesus came to set the captives free, and that refers to spiritual bondage, physical bondage, psychological and emotional bondage too.

Issues of inner emotions, stemming from fear, bitterness, hurt and unforgiveness can all be solved, healed and delivered from, either by the Grace of God directly or through help from men or women of God, and other counsellors.

Also, issues of the mind, whether depression, phobias, obsessive-compulsive behavior, bipolar disorder, and even personality disorders and psychosis can all be healed by the LORD directly or through counsellors.

Pride, ego, selfishness, lack of love and apathy are among the many areas that even senior men of God may have problems with, and are therefore under bondage themselves, with no one to turn to, as they themselves are already so highly elevated.

For that reason, humility is so important that in due time, once tested and tried over the years, God can then exalt us, for when one is exalted, pride and ego will naturally come along.

1 Peter 5:6 "Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time."

Some require time, especially if they have been plaguing the individual for some time, and the child of God need assistance to gain back confidence, faith and trust, often damaged by lies or by unfaithful servants of God, who misused or abused their positions. Some need deliverance and prayers to be set free from the bondage that they are in.

Thus, once we have picked up the poor sinner from the rubbish dump, we need to help take him or her out. Get her back on her feet, washed clean and bathed, clothed God's glory, and now readjusted to go back to society.

Time is needed for healing. Teaching educates and strengthens us and the best of all knowledge and wisdom comes from none other than the Scriptures – The Bible, the Word of God.

In some situations, the believer has unresolved issues that entangle him or her deeper into error or sin. Mostly, these are anointed servants who have allowed the things of the world to affect them, amongst which is ego and pride. The seeking of position, and personal glory, the lack of a teachable spirit, and unwillingness to be corrected, or advised; these ones who cannot accept any criticism, and have a tendency to retaliate and fight back, rather than allow meekness and humility to preside.

2 Peter 2:1 describes them:

"But there were also false prophets among the people, even as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them, and bring on themselves swift destruction."

Verses 21 & 22, from the same Chapter continue:

"For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than having known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered to them."

"But it has happened to them according to the true proverb: `A dog returns to his own vomit,' and, 'a sow, having washed, to her wallowing in the mire.' "

Jesus has set us free, free from sin and suffering. It would be foolish to turn our backs away from Him, and go back into sin.

This does not mean that the slightest sin committed, cuts us off from God. It is the willful sinner, who turns his back from the Lord, who denies Him, being the opposite of accepting Him, it is this denial of the Lord, that puts him at risk.

Let us therefore live as free people because our freedom is very precious, as it was wrought by the death and blood of Jesus on the Cross in Calvary.

Chapter Seven Overcoming Trials & Temptation

Trials and temptation are bound to happen in any Christian life.

Understanding the Book of Job helps.

This author believes that many will undergo various forms of tests, trials, temptations like Job, to varying degrees. Some will be severe, many less so, and a totally blessed life, with no trials and temptations is rather rare.

Even the Queen of England described 2019 as a particularly difficult year. There will be good years and bad ones, tough seasons and smooth ones, but the LORD is always good.

Even at this time of writing the new edition, the world is undergoing a pandemic

and an accompanying world depression, the question is whether believers will come out stronger or devastated, both physically and in their faith.

There is nothing wrong with lamenting, praying, crying, and even arguing, but we should not be disrespectful and show irreverence. Worst of all, our faith should not grow cold, even as it is already predicted in the word that many will do so.

We must never tempt God, and never, never treat God and His servants and His matters with contempt. God forbid us, if any element of arrogance, deceit, and irreverence comes in. It would truly reflect the foolishness of man or woman, when he or she challenges God. We can wrestle with Him like Jacob, or like Hannah, on our knees, humbly, and He is merciful, but never, never show irreverence.

Do you wish to be among those whose faith will grow cold, or will you wish to remain strong? The key then is to be well trained, to be equipped so that when trials and temptations come, you will not fall, but will resurface again, to the Glory of God.

His promises are clear. We are of more value than the sparrows, and we should not be anxious but to trust in Him.

So, if things do not turn right, we can come before Him, seek His Face, wait upon Him and God will surely and certainly answer.

He is not slow or slack in His promise to you and I; He will answer your prayers, unless like some among the Israelites, He has "blocked" you on His Majesty's Cellphone.

Chapter Eight Do Not Lose Your Package

You have full access to the Salvation Package. Receive it in full and do not let anyone deceive you or rob you of this precious life of yours, with the full privileges and benefits as a member and citizen of the Kingdom of God.

Now that you have come to believe in an awesome Savior and God, you should not have any more lies or doubts influencing your mind and your life.

"No more lies, no more doubts!"

When we know the truth, the truth will set us free.

Allow your faith to begin to grow, from the little mustard seed that you began with, let it grow and grow. Before long, you are there amongst the mighty men and women of God.

The Gospel of John quotes Jesus in John 8.32: "and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free."

Enough of lies, deception and doubt.

Move on, move forward, go on higher and higher grounds, as God will begin to reveal more and more to you, equip you more and more, and use you for greater works and greater things ahead in your life.

The Gospel of John Chapter 14, verse 12 quotes Jesus, talking about you and me:

"Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do, he will do also; and greater works than these he will do, because I go to My Father."

Can you not see the power of that truth, that indeed we can and will do greater things than Jesus? That is true, for clearly, many preachers and pastors have preached more sermons than Jesus, served more years than Him, and many evangelists and ministers have preached to thousands and thousands, even a million as in the case of Reinhard Bonke, way beyond the numbers of the time of Jesus, Himself. Even raising the dead, praying for the blind and the lame, some, though a few have done as much if not more than our Master Himself.

And, it is perfectly all right for the student to do as well as the Master and even more, especially when our Master Jesus declares so.

Do not let any more negative thoughts hinder you, as these thoughts do not help, and they can discourage and pull you down, and others along with you too.

Build up your faith, know that your salvation is secure; elevate your position in Christ to its rightful place of authority and power; and grow in your Christian walk and ministry, not allowing the enemy to affect you in any way, as your position is strong and secure on the Rock, Who is Jesus Himself.

You are clearly and affirmatively a child of God, birthed by the Spirit of God, a rightful heir of the Kingdom of God.

You are empowered, anointed and chosen by God for His service for His Glory. You are not weak, inadequate, or ill-equipped. In God, you can do everything.

You are prophet, king, and priest, definitely for you family, in your place of work and around the neighbourhood and more.

You are qualified with only one necessary degree or title: "A child of God!"

Chapter Nine A Champion in Five to Ten Years

No champions are born overnight.

How many Olympian families are there? Very few. I googled and found out that for the Summer Olympics, there are only two families where three generations are medallists – one, the Kellers from Germany, and the other the Montanas from Italy, only two medallists from grandpa to son to grandson.

While talents can be gifted down the generations, it seems more likely that it is the inspiration, motivation and even coaching of the parents or grandparents that gave the young child a head start compared to others. The champion golfer Tiger Woods is a good example where the father's passion was passed on to the son, Tiger.

For the rest of the world, thousands upon thousands of medallists came from sheer hard work. If it takes an Olympian from five to ten years to be champion, the same can be true for the man and woman of God.

With the Salvation Package at your feet, a teacher and trainer by your side, the sky is the limit, so too is the price that you have to pay. Sheer hard work pays off.

A common misquoted teaching or saying of the Lord is that many are called and few are chosen.

Matthew 20:16 "For many are called but few chosen."

Many who sit quietly in the pews are affirmed by teachers who teach this to mean that only a few will be chosen.

This author believes that all are called, like an open interview, but few come forward to be interviewed and chosen. In other words, like the Olympic trials, we need to be prepared, with years of hard dedicated training, under good teachers and mentors, and when the trials come, we go forward to be chosen, and indeed few will be chosen.

Thus, we must not take this verse and sit idle and wait to be called. We know that the LORD calls on all to come forward to be "Fishers of Men."

As we come forward, and we show interest commitment and dedication, and God will raise the Billy Grahams, Reinhard Bonnkes, David Pawsons and Ravi Zacharias' from amongst you. Yes, God can raise you to be a good and faithful servant like these, whether famous or not, whether names or unnamed, yet bearing good fruit.

We may not be a champion at international level, but we can be a champion in our area, our village, even in our family. Who knows, you may raise a champion, or even raise a generation of champions, if you are leading a flock, a group, a congregation?

May all take up the calling to receive from GOD more and more of His blessings and anointing, so that more and more can serve Him, chosen to be pastors, teachers, evangelists, prophets and apostles for near and far.

You are a champion already, and in the making to be a bigger and greater champion, even as you train harder, equip yourself better, push on further and seek more and more from the LORD, who gives grace and blessings of the Holy Spirit to those who ask, seek and knock in Jesus Name.

We can be the new next generation, or we can raise the next new generation, one who receives in full the "Salvation Package" and unpackage it for full use for God's Glory for the extension of His Glorious Kingdom.

Jesus is the same yesterday, today and tomorrow. You and I cannot be the same today, tomorrow as we were yesterday, as God wants our tomorrow to be a glorious one, as we work hard and persevere today for Christ.

May the full blessings of the Salvation Package be yours to use and multiply freely to others for the fullness of ministry for Christ, as we serve Him – on His Majesty's Service.

Amen and amen.

Chapter Ten Awesome Power in the Salvation Package

There is awesome power in "The Salvation Package."

As you grow from child to young adult to mature adult in Christ, the whole armamentarium of God will be at your disposal to use for His Glory.

We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the powers and the principalities, but we need not fear, for the power in Christ in us, is far greater than these forces of darkness.

Psalm 34:6 "The Angel of the LORD encamps around all those who fear Him and delivers them."

  1. John 4:4 "He who is in you is greater he who is in the world."

The Salvation Package will transform you into a spiritual giant, a man of God, a saint of the Kingdom, when you receive it in full step by step, for it transforms you into a "New Creation", a new person and being by the name of a "Christian."

(i) The Power to Save

This is the most important function and work of the Gospel in the Salvation Package – to lead the lost into the Kingdom of God, and hence the ultimate eligibility to enter Heaven.

"A soul is gloriously saved!"

In it, when opened and unwrapped is the "Gospel of Jesus Christ" - which releases the power to "save" each one of us from our sins, when we call upon the Name of Jesus.

Romans 10:13 "For whoever calls upon the name of the LORD shall be saved."

(ii) The Power to Transform

The Gospel of Jesus when received transforms the believer into a "new creation", a new being in Christ Jesus. The Spirit of God now indwells the believer and the new believer is "born again" in the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit also called the Spirit of Christ.

This new creation, born again in the Spirit of God begins to show the fruit of the Spirit which is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control, which are all wonderful aspects characters which is high above the law.

A murderer will become a man of God; a prostitute becomes a woman of valor, and more.

(iii) The Power to Heal

The secrets of healing are no secrets and revealed in the Word of God, among which is that "by the stripes of Jesus," we are healed.

Isaiah 53:5 "And by His stripes we are healed."

1Peter 2:24 "by whose stripes you were healed."

Exodus 23:25 says that there is healing in the midst of us and the fervent prayers of the righteous is powerful. Seek your elders to anoint and pray over the sick, and they will be healed.

(iv) The Power for Freedom

Jesus came to set the captives free, and when we know the truth, and the truth will set us free from all bondage.

John 8:32, "And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free."

You can and should be set free from sin, from bondage, from slavery, from fear, from poverty, from sickness, from all forms of addictions, from oppression, from depression, from lust and the list goes on.

(v) The Power for Victory

In Christ we are more than conquerors. Victory and success are ours to claim and received. We are to be the head and not the tail. Declare it and receive it. The abundant life is ours through Jesus. Claim it.

In John 10:10 Jesus said, "I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly."

Do not anyone rob, steal or destroy your success, your inheritance, your riches as the rightful child of the Most High.

(vi) The Power to perform Miracles

Salvation is already a miracle by itself. But more than that with prayer and using the Name of the LORD, we can command mountains to be moved, even physical ones, when we believe and pray in the Name Jesus.

In Matthew 17:20, Jesus said, "For assuredly, I say to you, if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain 'Move from here to there, and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you."

Such power is in our hands, as the Lord Jesus assures us, if we have faith in Him.

(vii) The Power to Overcome

Whatever the obstacle, whatever the hurdle, whatever doors closed, pray in the Name of Jesus and all of these hindrances and obstacles can and will be overcome.

1John 5:4 "For whatever is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world – our faith."

(viii) The Power of the Name of Jesus.

In the days of past, the King's authority is passed down to his officers via a ring, a seal, a stamp or even a badge.

Now, our King – the Lord Jesus Christ has allowed us to use His Name, as the awesome authority, so that in the Name of Jesus, whatever we pray to the Father will come to pass.

Philippians 2:9, 10 "Therefore God also has highly exalted Him and given Him the name which is above every name; that at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth and of those under the earth."

(ix) The Power for Deliverance

God has delivered us from darkness into the Kingdom of His son, and we are now rightful children of God, as priests, prophets and princes.

Colossians 1:13 "He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins. And we are now empowered to minister with power.

"He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world." 1 John 4:4

When we pray and resist the devil, he will flee from us.

James 4:7 "Therefore submit to God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you."

As part of the healing and ministry to set the captives free, this ministry of deliverance to set the captives. Many are bound and trapped under various sorts of demonic oppression and bondage and all of them can be set free.

Jesus prayed and the man was delivered from a legion of spirits. Even in this present day, this ministry is available and around throughout the world that when we pray many can be set free.

The power is in the name of Jesus, for every knee will bow to His name.

(x) The Power to raise the Dead

There is resurrection power in the Holy Spirit, and many who were declared dead have been raised again; many dead limbs have had strength returned to them; many who were blind with even absent eyeballs have had new eyeballs installed and able to see again; deaf ears have been opened; dead companies, dead batteries, dead engines, and this author had a 'dead digital camera' resurrected again – only if you believe.

In John 11:25, Jesus said, "I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in Me, though he may die, he shall live."

We, who are in Christ, when we receive in full from the Salvation Package, can raise the dead to live, in the Name of Jesus Christ, by the power of the Holy Spirit of God.

(xi) The Power of the Word of God

The Holy Bible, - the Word of God in the Salvation Package has great and awesome power. Know the Truth and the truth will set you and others free. Use this power to build, to extend God's Kingdom and to serve Him for His Glory.

John 8:32, "And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free."

There is also man's tongue which is very powerful, as God has given us the authority to bind and loose on earth, as it is in heaven, even as we walk and live as children of God, on planet earth.

However, we have to be careful to use the tongue to bless and not to destroy and kill. It can do so either way. There is power in your tongue, and prayers in 'tongues', as praying in tongues speaks to God.

Proverbs 18:21 "Death and life are in the power of the tongue. And those who love it will eat its fruit."

Matthew 18:18 "Assuredly, I say to you, whatever you bind of earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven."

When we use God's Word and pray it for the right situation and plead with God for the circumstances, awesome power is released as the LORD GOD will always honor His WORD.

(xii) The Power of Love & Forgiveness

God's main principle is love, mercy and compassion; at the end of the day, it is love – the love of God with all our heart, all our mind and all our strength and our soul that will heal, deliver and set free, as well as bind us all together.

It is this love that God has for us, and we for God, this power to be able to love, that will release God's ultimate love and power in this whole earth for the extension of the Kingdom of God.

With that love, comes the power over racism, discrimination, evil thoughts, murder, and the awesome power to forgive each other and to truly love one another, for by that the world will know that we belong to Jesus.

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is LOVE.

The Good News is LOVE.

The Salvation Package is LOVE.

Use that awesome power in it, in the full "Salvation Package" with love, to set the captives free, to heal the sick and to save the lost.

The End

BOOKS by The Author

The Good Son

The Testimony of Jesus

The Good & Precious Wife

In Search of the Living God & Beyond

The Gospel in 30 Minutes

Not Sorry or Ashamed about Jesus

The Salvation Package

Available by order in Malaysia via Canaanland Bookstores, or direct via timsng@gmail.com Overseas orders should be directed to Amazon for print versions, if available.

Ebooks on Amazon, Smashwords

Locked Down 2020 – 100 hundred things to do

My Holy Ghost Stories

How I Became a Christian

The Christian Life

The Instant Gospel

Why I am a Christian

The Power of One Verse (series) Three Volumes

J2C Alert

The First Date

The First Christmas

God is No delusion

The Ten-Minute Gospel

This literature ministry has running costs, and often given out for ministry free. If you have been blessed, feel free to bless in return for the extension of His Kingdom through this ministry:

Sng Kim Hock

CIMB Malaysia

Swift code CIBBMYKL

Account no: 7003324288
