 
**The Last Curse**

Angel Series Book One

By

Ikechukwu Joseph

*****

This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are the product of the Author's imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locales or persons, living or dead, is coincidental

The Last Curse

Angel Series Book One

Ikechukwu Joseph

Published by Ikechukwu Joseph at Smashwords

Copyright 2017 Ikechukwu Joseph

Discover other titles by Ikechukwu Joseph at Smashwords.com:

Titles:  1.Discovering Yourself

 2. Strategic Spiritual Warfare

 3. Unlocking Closed Doors

 4. The Study of the Book of Colossians

(A Verse By Verse Analytical Study Commentary)

 5. A Study of the Book of Philippians

(A Verse By Verse Analytical Study Commentary)

 6. A Study of the Book of Ephesians

(A Verse By Verse Analytical Study Commentary)

 7 Angels go to War (Book 1: Battle for Ehie Dacunga)

 8. Haunting Shadows (Book 1)

 9. A Study of the Book of Galatians

 10 Studies in the books of Titus and Philemon

 11. Repositioning Yourself for Greater Success

 12 Principles of the Dynamics of Faith

 (How Faith Works)

 13 Who are you? (Bible Faith Nuggets Series Book Two)

 14 Divine Separations (Seven Abrahamic Covenant Promises) - Bible Faith Nuggets Series, Book Three

 15 What Do You See? (Maximum Vision Impact). - Bible Faith Nuggets Series, Book Four

 16 Insight for Fruitful Living

 (Bible Faith Nuggets Series Book One)

 17. Holy Spirit Anointing (Holy Spirit Series Book One )

 18. Bible Faith Nuggets Series Box Set ( Five Books in One)

 19 Jesus Christ: Beyond the Miracles –The Character (Lesson for Leaders)

20. The Restless Buttocks and the Stinger Ant

(A New Collection of African Proverbs)

21. Discover, Uncover and Recover All

(The ZikLag Experience)

22. Heroes and Heroines of our Faith and types of Faith

(Faith Supplement Series, book Two)

23. Salvation Colors

(Children's Salvation Story Series - Book One)

24. Knowledge, Understanding, Wisdom: The Tripartite Force in the Pursuit of Divine Access

25. Divine Immunity (Covenant Right Series, Book One)

26. Achievers Handbook 1 (Achievers Best Guide Series Book 1)

27. Through Faith (Living an Overcoming Life)

(Faith supplement Series Book Three)

28. Achievers Handbook 2 (Achievers Best Guide Series Book 2)

29. Achievers Handbook 3 (Achievers Best Guide Series Book 3)

30. Achievers Handbook 4 (Achievers Best Guide Series Book 4

31. Jesus Christ Our Example: The Exemplary Leader

(Lesson for Leaders Book Two)

32. Divine Remembrance Your Divine Decoration

Covenant Right Series Book 2

33. Unlocking God's Divine Favor

Covenant Right Series Book 3

34. Children's Salvation Alphabets

(Children's Salvation Series Book 2)

Smashwords License Statement

This e-book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This e-book may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each reader. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author

***

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

Chapter Eight

Chapter Nine

Chapter Ten

The Last Sacrifice (Angel series Book 2 - Game Changer)

Appreciation

Appendix A: How to become a Christian

Appendix B: Testimonies

About the Author

Author's Contact

back to the top

*****

Chapter One

It was a strange eerie sight and site. There, was a fetish scintillating huge clay pot, the size of a small house measuring about sixteen feet in diameter and could accommodate ten persons comfortably. I had never seen a pot so big, slanting from the river side as if feeding the river with water but it was hollow empty, dark with the blackness of the night. This empty rugged clay pot was later historically discovered to have been dug out physically and possibly used by slave traders to house slaves. Strange beings with sonorous female like voices emanated from the pot, singing or rather chanting incoherent eerie sounds. Their singing apparently had awoken _Ikem_ , alias Jerry Boy. A strange pot releasing strange songs and adorning a strange location!

"Why am I by the river?" Jerry Boy queried himself as he was frightened.

"Where am I?" he contemplated, worried. He remembered he slept in his cozy well-furnished condominium of beige colored outlook, the night before. How come he now woke up on a bamboo bed by the river bank amidst strange objects and bizarre strange looking human beings? The strangest thing was that the only sense he could decipher from the chanting of these beings was the mentioning of his native name, " _Ikem, Ikem_ you are welcomed to your call. You must answer the call of destiny, the ultimate call," as they filed out of the sparkling huge pot and hopping round him in an unusual dancing steps. These odd, hairy, half naked young women were smiling at Jerry Boy, bowing and never looked like a threat. Then after some chanting and theatrical displays, there emerged from the now smoking pot, a beautiful blond hairy lady adorned with gold and jewels all over. The sparkles from her eyes, hair and crown shocked Jerry Boy as he rubbed his hands across his eyes for clarity, expecting the worst. Inside, Jerry pleaded for God's intervention to save him. Jerry rejected the welcome song of the marine ladies and as he tried to brave it to escape that river vicinity a huge magical fire came to consume him, driving him back to the slave pot.

"You belong here - you belong with us. You were meant to be the chosen one," sounded the creepy voice of the leader of the marine ladies, shattering the early morning quietness and tranquility hence disturbing the whole ecosystem.

Jerry, as a medical doctor and a technology savvy person thought he could help his people judging from his background and wealth. Just back from his sojourn in the United States of America to Lagos and was welcomed by magical marine forces - his life was torn between the God of heaven who called him, sending angels on assignment and the evil creatures who hold on to their grandfathers' bill to enforce a blood covenant. When pleased these odd visitors will turn to beautiful ladies but when annoyed they assume weird similitude. The chosen one! Chosen both by God and the marine magus just to do their biddings - to either liberate or enslave them. It is like the war between good and evil, fire and water or light and darkness. But Jerry had chosen the God of the angels and heaven.

"I cannot come back to this land to die in a weird way. I thought it was all a dream but sadly it is happening again. Oh God it is happening again. They are coming back predictably in different shades and shapes, guises and disguises, in arithmetic and geometric ratios. With all my sincerity and innocence, they still singled me out, out of this whole race to pay the price," Ikem lamented

He just came back from the land of strangers, referring to the different races, faraway country of no man's land – where you sleep with one eye closed and the other open, where you give halfhearted commitment, partial trust if you do not possess your legal documents as resident. He thought he had escaped the darkest war and world by coming home, no more fear of the unknown, or of tomorrow. But now in his own country, a son of the soil and free born, he couldn't explain this sudden threat, like one suffering from claustrophobia, agoraphobia, aqua phobia or whatever other phobia there is. Ikem screeched and screamed like the giant panda bear's cub under siege reaching out for its mother's help. But he only received cheering responses from his bizarre tormentors.

During the yam festival when Ikem lodged in a Lagos suburb, it was the challenge of the charlatan magus of the magic clan or school. Angus, the sorcerer had used his magic disc to remote control and manipulate Ikem but failed as his evil projections backfired and his paraphernalia caught fire. People ran away thinking it was his usual display not knowing it was the invisible angels on assignment protecting Ikem that fired the warning shot. Magus conjuring his traveling whirl wind escaped when he saw fiery and fierce looking angels on guard, clad in immaculate sparkling white rays, following Ikem.

"Now in my own _Ehie_ village is domiciled a stronger force or cult. The captivity of this land is over. I have the commission for this mission home. The curse is obvious and manifest everywhere among my people - the women bore no male, the ladies couldn't get married, seasonal strange sicknesses that defy medical knowledge prevailed, the bareness of the land and of the women, the gradual extinction of the male voice. The dignity of any society is the availability of men, not just men but able bodied, hardworking warlords. Where are the _Okonkwos_ , the _Okekes_ , the _Okafors_ , the veterans of the market place? Where are the _Izuchukwus_ , the _Chukwunyeres_ or their replacements or signs of it? 'As a bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying so a curse causeless shall not come or alight.' The source must be cured to replenish our resources. The cause must be dealt with to remove the curse. The cause of the curse – the consequence of the cause and the cure! This is the last curse."

back to the top

*****

Chapter Two

The home scenario rattled with rumbling of dragons from the river, spitting fire and releasing demons, short weird malevolent mischievous evil creatures like goblins. They bore short horns and protruding upper teeth like the fangs and lacerating dentition of a lion that overlapped the lower jaw incisors. The pulp cavity oozed out blood with slimy whitish liquid. These demons clustered around the city gate as if they were gatekeepers or detectives waiting for intruders or impostors. They claimed ownership. The whole village was in turmoil. Is it a siege upon the land? The people were torn between serving these fire and blood spitting evil looking creatures through their priest or the _Chi_ of heaven that they say provided rain, sunshine and bumper harvest. The contest was set. These invading aliens surrounded the Ehie city gate, hanging on the sign post of the village as if taking possession. Then without warning, in broad day light, lightening, thundering and chariots of angelic forces struck from above and dispersed the demons and the water dragon. War in the heavenly places and the real intruders ran away. They regrouped, came back and a little war ensued and they ran away again leaving the angels on guard at the city gates. With trumpets, shouting and artistry we heard a familiar tune, "the Lord reigns, the Lord reigns."

The scenery now was not plaintive in my mind's eye. Bright day, bright people, welcoming land, evergreen vegetation, overhead bright blue sky and tranquility. It was just one of those eventful Saturdays in the dry season, just emerging from "everybody like Friday night" nightcap. It was end of the new yam festival. The harvest was bumper, the yield profitable, the effort, will, endeavors productive. The sun rose like a sonorous resonating lead guitar riffs or breaks to a crescendo, suspends for a while and then began a downward trend. The green world with its interactive flora and fauna responded to the radiating sun edifice of God almighty, the master scenic designer. The blend was awesome. The transition anything more than smooth! The transformation excellent! The human population complimentary! The small and the big, the young and the old, the black and the beautiful, the fatty and the skinny, nothing hurt, nothing bites. All was just a near perfect or rather pluperfect situation. "Oh God how great thou art."

"I was basking in the euphoria of loved ones I will be seeing after a long time, coming from far and wide, friends, brothers and sisters, extended families, school mates, the proper closing festival ceremonial dance usually spiced up with staccato rhythmic music of invited cultural groups. The thought lifted me to a different world. When it was twilight my thought was interrupted by a neighbor's buzzing intercom. The bright sunny day suddenly gave way. Then things took a downward turn and darkness fell unannounced, accompanied with thunderous lightening. Just now it was a full blown bright sunny day. Dread fell on all. Another eclipse or bible predictions of end time occurrences! My father told me long ago of a sudden night appearance in broad day light, cutting off the light from the sun. The end of the world or the biblical truth of the end-time! When the sun will be darkened, the moon will refuse to shine and the hanging stars like the icicles will begin to fall. The heaven and the earth's powers will be shaken. Then shall emerge the triumphant Son of Man with dazzling light, brighter than multitudes of chandeliers and flood lights combined, caught up there in the clouds of the sky. High sounding trumpet-carrying angels and arch angels leading the escort! Angels go to war. Woe is come upon the earth. Who shall escape?"

"Then I remembered the story of the great tribulation of the book of Revelation and the rapture, catching or rather snatching away of the saints from the earth. My heart sank and then rejoiced after all." That was the returner, 'Americana,' Jerry Boy soliloquizing.

*****

The Rapture

Then darkness descends

O'er the broad day light

Where is my child?

Where is my princess?

Where is the candle light?

What is amiss amidst?

The day strikes

The night revolts

###

Ping pon, ping pon buzzed the radio

Announcing breaking news

Stories of "missages"

Boeing Jet missing

Techno pride gone

Train crashes, cars smashes

Chaos, catastrophe looms

###

Gathering "Born Agains" disappear

Warned he me of a coming change

My thought could it be?

As am taught

As a tot and a toddler

The taking away

The apocalyptic cataclysmic event

The ensuing judgment

Then comes the end.

*****

"Then from the lower part of the lowest earth and sea arose a blinding smoke of demonic aura. The confrontation was set. Wondering what will happen as I seem to be caught in the crossfire. My thought was broken by the screeching of a mammoth crowd, of shouting, piercing cries, coming from the village center. Oh am I dreaming, a blurry nightmare or reverie?" Sweat poured down Ikem's face like rain and soaked his beddings as if he was dunked into a river. The howling, screaming, and cries grew stronger. So Ikem alias Jerry Boy decided to find out.

He rushed out almost half naked carrying the dread of his trance to the real world. "Oh my mother land, small but united. What a puzzle. This myth must be resolved."

*****

Ehie City

Ehie city, my native home country

The face of gold, the face of God

Repertoire of precious living stones

Encyclopedia of burning knowledge

Prospective living brains, living gold

Dazzling diamonds

Glittering silvers, rich soil

Promising stars, blessed fauna and flora

Your father's lamp never will die

###

Smaller but greater

Fewer but richer

Smarter but seem hindered, exploited and wearisome

Father's lamp never will die

###

Your brothers, some

Hate your brightness

"Dim the light lest it expose our weakness and dark acts and art, they plead"

Your brothers, others love your God-given

They love your riches, also your hindrances

Your father's lamp never will die

###

Awake, Arise, shine

Stop these gangsters

Check these racketeers

Voice up, wail ye wailers

Call up, help is above

Pull off their nailing divide

Their loads carry we no more

Your father's lamp never will die

back to the top

*****

Chapter Three

In Mr. O.O ( _Onwumere Onwubiko_ )'s family, great lamentations, calamities of different dimensions, both spiritually and physically prevailed. The people gathered to condole and console. OO's wife and four of her children had died in mysterious circumstances remaining _Ozoemena_ , the daughter fondly called _Ozo_ for short and one grandson _Dubem_ , full name being _Chukwu Dubem_ (CD).

"What is the matter, why the crying and lamentations?" cried the chief elder, gnashing his teeth in utter disgust as he let out a doleful wail.

Mr. OO expressing his grief retorted, "why my elder, why only me," weeping tears flowing down like rivers. He wept like a child who had lost a most cherished toy.

"My possessions, my life, my cherish treasure and consolation," pointing at her picture hung on the wall." We named her _Ozoemena_ , meaning, 'let another grief not happen to us,' to stop the treachery of death and their collaborators," as he stretched on the bamboo bed outside refusing to be consoled.

"Come and see." He led the elder to the other side where the battered body was deposited.

They entered a mud; thatched roof house structured more like a rotunda with seemly terracotta tiled floor that blended with the walls, depicting all sorts of stucco picturesque expression of local African designs and paintings. This blended silhouette now seemly desecrated by this horrendous gruesome sight of blood, mutilated and strangled body of the only surviving young daughter, Ozo.

The chief elder groaned, " _Ozo, Ozo_ and yet another grief is happening before our eyes. The young is supposed to bury the elder and not the other way round. What happened? Who did this? Who stole our pride? The gods must respond but for the curse, he trailed out, trying to hold back the tears."

Mr. OO said that Ozo was raped and killed. My last remaining child!

The chief elder sighed with heavy gnashing of teeth and moaning. "Again, again, Olunmo, _Olunmo, Olunmo_?" The old man now groggy and groping reminisces in all candor the dissonant life of Mr. OO's dead grandfather. They believed the sins of their grandfather were still hurting his lineage.

Mr. OO, now restless and impatient interjected, "Who is that? What did he do?"

The chief continued, "That was what we use to call your grandfather back those days when we were young."

_Olunmo_ in his prime days committed lots of atrocities. Once, he invited these two female students who had earlier helped to work in his farm to appreciate them and pay them their balance as they worked to help themselves through school. As brutish as his mind was he decided to assault them. Olunmo cooked fried rice for them with more whisky than water. After eating they became intoxicated, dizzy, sleepy and lost consciousness. Olunmo immediately swooped on his catch. He undressed them and your gaze of what followed is as good as mine. What men do when they become senile and 'insane.' Problem started for him when the kids fell into deep sleep for hours that they could not get up.

"Wake up, wake up," he fidgeted as he shook them. As lost as drugged fellows they groped between this world and another.

"I feel on top of the world uncle Olunmo," Uloma gibbering laughed out. "You are the greatest, beautiful fool, but yet we must chop your money," she slurred not knowing where she was and she slumped back to sleep. Her friend was saying, "My mother warned me, Uloma. See me. You have led me astray. My body is revolting and terribly hot. What have they done to me? Sweet food sometimes can turn sour and have death hidden inside. It is like stolen waters." Olunmo secretly did everything for them to regain consciousness. In fear he called out for help when every solution failed him.

"My sins have found me," he moaned.

People gathered and forced milk into their mouth to resuscitate them. He has desecrated the land. His own blood! He was banished from the land and after some time he came back and performed the required rituals to cleanse himself and the land. This weakness of rape, violence, and greed runs in their blood. The curse is activated and relived.

Olunmo was a successful business young man who travelled far and wide and saw it all. However his life took a new turn when he travelled for business to the city and came home with this beautiful damsel he called "my gold". She became everything, almost a demi god to him. Gold was nothing physical but a "human gold"- tall, towering with such gracefulness like a mermaid and of course a mermaid she turned. Her ebony hair overflows over her body to the waist. I have never seen such long natural hair without this present day so-called man-made attachment. Gold had these roundish piercing eyes, as piercing as that of a serpent, deeply seated into the socket of a well framed cranium. Her face, hands, skin texture were shiny, soft and tender like the tenderness of an innocent new born baby. For the records I never touched her body anyway. Do not ask me how I knew it to be tender. Gold's slim legs with no protrusions fitly support the whole body weight. She was a beauty to behold. Olunmo thought at last he got a better half. They were going to make an idyllic couple. Things superficially moved smoothly for some time until Olunmo's demeanor took a wan look and waned daily. Everyone closer to him was worried but never did anyone dare ask what the problem was. Unknown to all but Olunmo Gold use to transform into a serpent at midnight and coiled round him. A snake girl! In his own words, each night, towards that midnight he will become sickly and will not be able to make love to the wife and as soon as the lights are off, the wife will change appearances severally and will end up a serpent and coil over him. Night sickness! In the morning he will regain himself and go to work. Gold's presence was an insidious invasion of Olunmo's life. "Any day you tell anyone what is happening, you will die," the wife will threaten.

A life of fear and uncertainty controlled Olunmo. He became unpredictable as the weather. Dying one day at a time! His stout body began to degenerate, shrink and falter. Olunmo's supercilious indifference will not allow anyone to interfere.

"It is my business and no one should interfere in my life nor question my wife," he would always retort like someone under a spell. Indeed he was.

Gold, the gold digger would always feign innocent. As innocent as a dove! As immaculate as pristine forest! Even when every evidence and burden of proof of guilt beyond every reasonable doubt pointed her way she will pretend. When it was only too late, when the morning flower has faded, closed and opened like the flowers of the blue-eyed African daisy annual plants or the sundrops of the evening primrose family of North and South America, when the brightness of the sun had gone and almost set, when the emergence of the moon was farfetched and unavailable! When the rains had refused to fertilize our land and our brooks had no waters. When the wisdom of the grey hair scarcely could be found and reason refuses to prevail. When the tumultuous strength of the young began to wane and wan. When the mortals recognize not that they were not immortal and their stay here on planet earth was transient. When the help of the gods could not save the recalcitrant prodigal son, Olunmo was brought home an incomplete dying man and his stars no longer would twinkle. A great damage had been done to this man. The elders consulted and called on the wife to explain what had happened to their son.

"Since you came to our son his light has waned," the chief elder reminded her.

"Let none of you so called elders blame me," she shot. "You have enjoyed his wealth all these years and when he needed you most, where, I say where were you all?" she reprimanded.

With such strong disrespect she warned, "I will face anyone, inch for inch, face to face, might for might, whoever dares me."

The young people became agitated. "Who are you to dare our elders and the people of Ehie." You have challenged our gods and Amadioha. You have challenged the things that bound us together. They rose in fury from the different angles of the town hall. In the imbroglio, Gold never betrayed any emotions. She stood up in defiance, threatening like a lioness to confront them. The exacerbated situation witnessed great turmoil. Screaming, shouting, scrambling, crashing and bashing of chairs and table followed. Then the great surprise came when Gold unannounced with wild screech transformed into a python in the full glare of all. After some python dance she varnished after a frightening display.

back to the top

*****

Chapter Four

There was commotion and everyone ran for dear life. This is stranger than fiction. Gold is not human everyone cried. That was the last they saw the so called Gold. Olunmo till the day he died lived a life of a living dead. The curse of his atrocities is still hanging over his lineage. The chief elder paused and gnashed his teeth. As he wanted to continue he was interrupted by another cry from outside

Three villagers have been killed by Mr. Udugbo to conceal the rape of Ozo because they saw him. The youth went on rampage to look for him but he had absconded to the city.

Mr. OO carried his case to Elder's council. Ehie village gleefully called Ehie city by the youth is small in size and population compared to other communities but is rich - a repertoire of hot brains of burning knowledge, a land of promising stars, burgeoning flora and fauna but yet periodically invaded by demonic presence. A land of many and diverse colors!

Mr. OO bowed as tradition demands, "our elders, I greet you. It has been two years now since they killed my daughter? Have you found her killers?" he stammered as If he did not know.

The elders were silent for a long time and the chief spoke up, "Go, Mr. OO we know what we are doing. We have not forgotten. The elders have consulted and waited for the god of the land, Amadioha to fight his cause. Mr. Udugbo is not only a pedophile but a castrated gigolo. This is an abomination, a spiritual problem and need a spiritual judgment. Sororicide is not only punishable but is also an abomination, a bad omen, and disaster waiting to happen."

Udugbo was a heartless pot-bellied rich business man who used his wealth to terrorize the innocent people. When widows and the helpless run to him for help, he will ask them to sell off their land irredeemably to him in exchange or sell their bodies. Udugbo could be likened to Zacchaeus, the tax collector who extorted the people but unlike Zacchaeus he never repented of his atrocities. He was not only a sadist who enjoyed the pains of others but a masochist. Call him a sadomasochist of the chronic order. He was always excited and exacerbated by other people's pain.

His living room of sizeable dimension was full of debtor's wares that could not be redeemed. The walls were plain and faceless unlike other rich people's houses that were decorated to show off their affluence. They called him "money-miss-road" and he always responded, "nothing goes for nothing."

Udugbo's life style took his wife to her early grave. She could not bear the humiliation and shame her husband's attitude to the common people brought on the family. Two strange incompatibles! I wondered how they lived all these years. The case of sharing their family assets exposed his wicked disposition towards his senior brother. With the dollars sent from abroad by his son he bought over the elder's board. Off course those of them without conscience .He made sure the sharing formula favored him at the expense of his brother. In the end, he got three times of family assets to his senior brother's one. Later he still usurped most of his brother`s palm trees with the connivance of those conscienceless elders. His brother, a fine God fearing gentleman left everything to the God he served and this God eventually vindicated him. Udugbo lived a cursed life, from one heinous crime to the other. Rape, murder, usurpation painted his whole life dark and bad. Now look at what he has grown to become .His name never cease to offend the gods and never failed to provoke even the dead in their grave if they ever had to talk. The sins of Udugbo have goaded the lands, air and vegetation around us into rebellion or revolt. 'Oh God of heaven hear our cry. Oh God of our fathers remove this reproach of this black sheep of our family. May all these wailing of the wailers, the trail of the traitors, the stains of the sinners, the pains of the people and the travail of the travelers receive their due recompense'

Mr. OO grumbled out with CD in his hands, feeling unsatisfied and frustrated.

The chief elder at a later date visited Mr. OO's home.

"Get the door, what a hard rat-tat-tat Mr. OO muttered as Dubem (CD) headed for the door.

Mr. OO rose quickly, "our elder, welcome." as halfhearted pleasantries followed.

"Like our Fathers said, "the frog does not come out in the day for nothing. Tomorrow is pregnant. There is a reason why the cocoyam leaves icily shrieked or screeched. The English man says, "a stitch in time saves nine," the chief rattled all the known proverbs which is the elder's way. Proverb, they say is the palm oil with which to chew words or conversation.

"Mr. OO, why do you bear this name you bear?" he questioned, looking at Mr. OO as if he was the cause of his own woes. Mr. OO that is _Onwumere_ meaning death is the cause or death caused it.

"I don't know. My father called me so.

"Why did you call your daughter _Ozoemena_ Mr. OO?" he pressured. _Ozoemena_ denotes, "let another never happen implying let another bad thing not happen."

Looking exasperated and stretching his fingers replied, "My father named her before his death," wondering the barrage of all these hurting questions.

The chief gnashing his teeth continued the story of his grandfather and why they called him _Olunmo_ , the pit of evil spirit. _Olunmo_ was rich but misused his wealth, killing, usurping and raping people's wives and daughters till the day he raped and killed the only daughter of a widow called _Nneoma_ whom he also had taken all her land earlier. _Ntachiobi_ was the only daughter, consolation, friend of her mother _Nneoma_. So _Nneoma_ continued cursing your grandfather day in and day out, in the market place, on the road and everywhere air was available. She had no one but the gods. They heard the poor woman's cry. _Olunmo_ means a well or pit of evil spirit because he swallowed everything on his way. He was on a journey in a ship, an adventure that took his life mysteriously - when thunder struck and immediately he was strangely infested with maggots in public glare. Maggots were visibly coming out of his legs and mouth while still alive before he eventually died. This was a death caused by and attributed to _Amadioha_ and was regarded as an evil death and he was thrown into the evil forest as traditional demanded. He was never to be accorded any normal burial rights.

Erroneously they thought that it was the spirit of the aggrieved Olunmo that comes and causes havoc in his family. Was it the curse of an embittered Nneoma or the Evil dead?

Now there were two heads of _Amadioha_ and two shrines in the Land. Amadioha of the family of Dike was involved in this instance. The priest, a handsome middle-aged man that bear the dreaded head - a cylindrical twisted woven antique of raffia or twine or cane wood, looking from a distance, as no one dare come close it for fear except the priest. It is about two feet tall and a diameter of about a foot with radiating spines of feathers. The hollow content is only imagined. Who dare question the gods? The priest has sacred mantra he utters especially when in the shrine of tall Iroko trees to evoke the presence of the gods. _Amadioha Ehie, Amadioha Ehie_ , _bora onwe gi obo, kamalu. Oji ikuku aga!_ That is the god that moves by whirl wind speed, adjudicate! The dread of this mantra penetrates the marrow, bowels and nerves of the people and they quake. Absolute silence and fear, expecting the inevitable! These supposed gods can combine efforts or power to fish out a culprit.

Once upon a time during the Nigerian civil war when there was acute shortage of food, people resorted to stealing farm products, poultry to domestic animals in other to survive. Mr. Uko use to use grains as bait to lure the fowls. Grains tied to thread. Just like a line of a hook as they pick the grains they are chocked and he quickly grabs and strangle them into his bag. One day he ran out of luck and the young people caught him red handed and followed him, cursing and accusing him. Then some adults came out. This saved him from being lynched. As deceptive a robber skilled in his act he quickly ran to the first elderly person and said, "please use the eye of an elder and look into my bag," as he opened the bag for the elder.

"Did you see any fowl?"

The elder looked into his bag and gnashing his teeth muttered, "No fowl, no fowl is inside your bag."

His subterfuge presentation paid off. Mr. Uko was so skilled in this evil that sometimes people publicly or smartly ask him to watch over their farm, promising him a share in the harvest. Since they know he will be the one to steal from it. He will smile and laugh and they will all join him in laughing. The best was to hang the prize over his neck. Off course that did it for them. At another time, _Uko_ was not that lucky as the priest of Amadioha had to invite another god with its power called _Uduwalika_. This case involved a burglary of missing goats and sheep. A concoction was served to all _Ehie_ people.

back to the top

*****

Chapter Five

The Biafra-Nigeria war has had its toll on the people. Every weapon was used by the Federal troops. Air war, sea war, land war and most genocidal was the economic blockade to force the so called rebels to submit. They stopped the Red Cross, the Caritas, the World Council of Churches and other humanitarian organizations that wanted to help the civilian population. Our people were dying en masse of malnutrition, kwashiorkor, smallpox, chickenpox, measles and _okun nkpara_ nick-named 'go-slow' because the disease weakened their knees and ankle nerves that people couldn't move fast. From the skeletal system to the nervous system, from the respiratory to the excretory system! All the fabrics of the human nature were devastated by this economic blockade of the enemies. It was indeed man's inhumanity to man.

Nevertheless the modus operandi of " _Uduwalika_ " was that a culprit will be possessed or obsessed with a spooky demonic aura of the gods and he will begin to demonstrate how the full operation of the robbery was carried out. This was exactly what happened to Mr. Uko and his gang members in this crime. The village went agog of this public display. But was this really the truth? Were they hypnotized? Were they culpable? No one can tell even though the priest thought otherwise. Off course the punishment was public disgrace and banishment.

Mr. OO now to the chief elder, "what shall we do?"

"Sacrifices, sacrifices must be offered to Amadioha."

A lot of rituals and sacrifices followed but to no avail. Consultations with different native doctors also but no solution came out of all.

Meanwhile Dubem had been schooling in the city and got "born again" after reading books written by Pastor Ikechukwu Joseph titled "Discover, uncover and Recover all (the ziklag experience) and "Strategic Spiritual Warfare" which opened his eyes to the truth of the hidden covenant. He met Ikem, Jerry boy the Americana so called and Agwu in separate occasions and in the course of interactions they bonded with each other.

They later left for their stations, Dubem to school in Lagos, Agwu to Umuahia where he was learning under someone as apprentice and Ikem a former teacher who became an Evangelist was based at home. They wrote each other and came home one holiday and Dubem shared his Lagos experience.

As they met in the village school at the City gate and exchanged pleasantries and sat on the field discussing.

"I am back home for good," Dubem announced with broad face and the smile of a chaser cat. "What a sweet relief from school assignments, seniors' orders and pestering. Everything was regimented and regulated in the name of training and discipline."

Ikem turning to Agwu inquired about his iron bending.

"Fine, I will soon be free from the slave master. My master is very strict and hard. He had trained me to be an iron man," as all laughed hilariously exchanging five.

Dubem remembering his experience in a restaurant called out to Ikem and Agwu laughing.

"I entered one restaurant to eat in Lagos and gaze what the sign board read.

"Eat all you want. You will not pay. Only you Grandchildren will pay for you."

They all laughed out their intestine. Ikem now more curious than excited prodded him, "So what happened?"

Dubem prolonging the anxiety dragged on to say, "I ate and ate but I was cautious because I didn't know what they had in mind. You know Lagos." As I wanted to leave they grabbed me and demanded for me to pay. I pointed to the sign board and they said that is true but that I was not paying for what I ate but for what my grandfather ate - that my children will pay my own bill. I asked when my grandfather ate there."

"Do they know him?" Agwu chided. "Do they know our father Onwubiko or Mr. OO your father?"

All laughed, but Ikem halfway stopped laughing and in pensive mood and deep thought muttered, "our grandfathers' bill, our grandfathers' bill."

Agwu noticing his silence called out to Ikem, robbing his shoulders, "what is the matter?"

Ikem thinking aloud muttered, "the grandfathers' bill, our grandfathers' bill?"

Dubem turned to face him, "which bill or what bill?"

Ikem now opened up, "what you said struck me. That is what we are paying for today in our village. 'The Fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge?' the Holy book mentioned if you remember but Jeremiah in chapter thirty-one verse twenty nine also said that

'In those days they shall say no more, the fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge' and further verse thirty-one says "I will make a new covenant." We are paying the debts or loan our fathers incurred or inherited but God promised us a new covenant. Jesus has paid it all but we must enforce it."

Agwu letting out a shriek of someone in pains or lost asked, "Which debt? What we don't know, how can it hold us? It should be written off and forgotten. The past belong to the past and their odd tradition. See me see trouble o.o.o," trivializing the weighty issue. They all laughed it off, striking each other's five fingers with energy and enthusiasm.

"The devil has no bad debt. The wrongs of our fathers! We must right the wrongs of our fathers," Ikem emphasized.

"Wait," as Dubem brought out a book - Look at this book – It narrated the principles of the operation of a problem and the grandfather's bill. He read it out:

"Every problem has a:

\- Cause and a course

\- Every cause has effect

\- Every effect has a consequence and

\- Every consequence has a cure

The principles of a cause has the immediate cause and remote causes.

The immediate cause is the last straw that broke the Carmel's back while the remote causes which can be many are causes behind the immediate cause. What past generations and our forefathers cumulatively have done is what we the immediate cause recipients are suffering now. It is our grandfather's bill that we are paying for."

The grandfather's bill! This is the sins of our forefathers. The grandfather's sins are still haunting the children today and it is the root of some of their trying problems today. Generational and even generic problems! Our forefathers worshipped and served the devil. They entered into covenants, contracts, oaths and initiations with the devil. They were involved with slave trading, made human sacrifices and worshipped idols. They worshipped their idols which became a snare to them. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons. They shed innocent blood. The blood of their sons and daughters whom they sacrificed to the idols desecrated the land .Our forefathers served idols like _Amadioha, Ofo na ogu, Eze Nwanyi nmiri_ (queen of the coast), _Ezeala_ (king of the land), _Ahiajoku_ (god of yam) _Kpukpukanka, Agwu, Oboriobo, Ekperiofo, Igbudu ,Sango_ (god of thunder), _Ogun_ (god of iron), _Olu-okun_ (god of the beach), _Ifa oracle, Alajobi spirit, Okhinae_ (shrine and ruthless god) etc. They dedicated and sold out the land and the people there. Our ancestors' worshipped snakes (pythons), stones, rivers, animals, carved images and were involved in masquerade dances, consulted sorcerers, mediums and witchdoctors. They were involved in occultism and spirit worship. They poured libations to the idols or the gods, seeking protection for their children and children's children. These made them enemies of God. The evil they committed brought a carryover effect or hangover to their children. So there is an invisible spiritual chain linking the ancestors to their generations and grandchildren. The spirits are saying we have a pact with your grandfathers. They signed a will including your name. There is ancestral will and certificate of occupancy (C of O) dedicated to demons. There is a bill and reward left for the children. "Our fathers sinned and are no more, and we bear their punishment."

Even in this modern age some nations or communities surrender the security of their lands and life to occult group to protect, defend and fight for them. Unknown to those people they are selling out spiritually to demons. The future generations will reap the negative effect of such land devotion. There is a spiritual principle ordained by God that is being violated and perverted here.

God is letting us discover and uncover something about ourselves and our past that hold our present in derision

Agwu now moody, remembering what his forefather did. "A woman cursed my grandfather and his offspring. And it seems to be working out on us.

"Why?" Ikem queried.

Dubem added, "He raped, killed and committed a whole host of evils. His life was like a man powerfully driven by some unknown evil forces. We knew him in his dying days."

"My father told me that my grandfather offered me to serve the gods as priest," Agwu completed.

"What for and why?" in this hi-tech and modern world Dubem asked.

"To appease the gods for our people who had no male children."

In a lighter mood, so how did they give birth to your father if they had no male children?" Ikem giggled in humor and all of them laughed.

But Agwu expressing worry and anxiety, "This is no laugh matter looking moody and pensive the more." They even accepted to be poor as to have male children, imagine, but then all in the village both educated and non-educated, those abroad and those at home are poor. I mean very poor.

Ikem agitated now, "Then we must recover all, like this book said?" pointing to Dubem's hand.

"But how," Agwu wondered looking more exasperated.

"Prayers is the answer and solution to our problems, Dubem suggested.

And Ikem added, "and fasting with repentance of wrongs of our forefathers."

They now agreed to separate themselves and go away to a place far away from home for seven days to fast and pray for their land. Hence the journey to the mountain called Ugwu Nchara (stained mountain). They heard later that their fathers use to go there for rituals.

At the town hall meeting:

"How can only few questionable characters in this community be the only rich ones? Our erudite brains, our teaming graduates and able bodied youths have nothing to show for their feat. We thank God for our many females but how many of them now do we have living with us instead of their husbands? A teaming population of both young and old women who cannot go to war nor defend our territory when it mattered most! They can't even find husbands for themselves. Are we going to have an extinction of the males?" Mr. OO lamented.

"Is it only that?" the chief elder added ruefully. "We trained our children so that they can get white collar jobs and take care of themselves if not us but they came back helpless, still dependent on us. Poverty has ravaged us all long enough. When! When, the frail grizzled old man with grimace face and contrite tone cried. When will this burden be lifted? May the gods of our fathers not let us down! My people will poverty, penury, insolvency be mementos of our relations and existence, he asked solicitously not knowing what to say next? Our sheep and goats are dwindling, the palm fruits that sustained our forefathers are fast withering and our lands have refused to be productive. There was silence for quiet sometime. Then one of the schooled youths stood up and said.

"I heard our son and brother Ikem sing, 'that tough times never last but tough people do.'" He sang a song that tears may endure for the night but joy comes in the morning. He paused as if searching for what next to say. During this interlude intruding frigid wuthering noise swept through the land that the trees seem to whistle. "This is a good omen," he continued in response. The demeanor of all lightened up and hope brushed through their inner beings. This assurance of hope seems to have painted an imagery of a coming good. Our fathers light will never die nor falter," the young man concluded.

*****

We can create sense out of nonsense

We can create something out of nothing

We can create wealth out of dearth

We can create prosperity out of adversity

We can create mercies out of misery

We can create viable ventures out of turbulent adventure

We can create tomorrow's peace out of today's crisis.

back to the top

*****

Chapter Six

A case of ungodly delay, a complete Christian family but living under closed heavens and closed doors. Choked by environmental forces and hindering spirits. Uba's family still radiated a ray of hope for their people.

All the people now seated in church service as the pastor officially announced the return of Ikem of Uba Obioma's family after his studies abroad.

Mr Uba, Jerry Boy's father, after the service spoke to the visiting church members. "Ikem is back for good. He has grown so much and we are all happy to welcome him."

All shouted praise God and rejoiced on seeing Ikem, who came out of the bedroom full of hilarity, exuding zest for life, with pellucid brown eyes, dark curled hair, wearing brown cotton trousers with suspenders and high-top with crisscross of pink and white gnashes on the legs, just to match. His speech was plain and devoid of all those features of Yankeeism as he delightedly welcomed all.

"We should be the ones welcoming you," they responded.

They attended to all their guests, shared and relished the good old days of their childhood. Everyone departed after the ceremony.

Uba called out to Ikem, summoning him to sit down. "It has been quiet sometime since you came back. In fact the community has requested that you become the Principal of our new community secondary school," he said showing excessive extravagant display of feeling with no idea of what to expect.

Ikem interrupting him exclaimed, "What, a school teacher? Dad, for goodness sake I read medicine and Electronic Engineering as a second degree. I will relocate to Lagos where I was offered a job in Oil Company." His responses aroused intense dislike in his father.

Ikem's father interrupting him said, "no my son, no Lagos, our only son, away from home? Never, God forbid."

"Father, in Lagos I will have the chance to do my specialist course or intern, and then I will be able to serve my people better. I need all the money I can get to start up projects in this village."

Ikem's father and mother became restless and worried about his decision and what it portends for the whole community. Later the community sent an emissary led by Uncle Mike to dissuade him from going to Lagos.

Uncle Mike Akobueze in company of some elders visited their home.

"Ikem, we heard your plans to relocate to Lagos but your people want you to help develop our land and not some strange place. We, the people of Ehie community sold our landed property, loaned out our palm trees, and did community jobs to raise money for your education. Women in thrift societies donated their savings and we even mortgaged the future of other children to send you abroad."

"Yes, yes the other elders intermittently concurring." "You are our first fruit, the best brain here and you came out best in your University abroad. We thank God. Please don't let us down. 'Our own is our own, their own is their own.' You are our own. Ehie people and our gods insist you must head our new school."

The chief priest spoke up. "The gods have decreed and spoken. It is sacrilege not to obey. The gods are sacrosanct."

"Shit, bull shit," expressing his anger. "You people cannot destroy my future; I have a better plan for this village and not what some imaginary gods of yours said."

Ikem's parents suffered persecution from the people and were cajoled and threatened with excommunication and banishment.

The chief elder advised, "Ikem, your father served the people well and you will not betray that trust."

Ikem's father, Mr. Uba was fondly called _Dan mama_ because of his philanthropic nature. And because of his poor background, Mr. Uba struggled through life to see the light but still set a mark in the sounds of time. Thoughtfully, he burned the midnight oil and earned for himself academic laurels. That was the motivation he needed to distinguish himself as a celebrated business man and a beckon of success with such companies like Coca-Cola bottling company, Nigerian Tobacco Company and Nigerian Union of Construction and Civil Engineers. During the Nigerian Civil war, as an astute, dynamic and charismatic leader imbued with choleric qualities, he played vital roles in the society and in community development. That earned him an appointment with the so called secessionist government during the civil war. Mr. Uba also illuminated the way for most of the youngsters. This earned him the name "Dan Mama" that is saying you are our mother. He was raised a God fearing Man by his parents and he never departed from righteousness. Mr. Uba as his name suggest was a bundle of physical and spiritual wealth. A father to the fatherless and the mother that the orphans never had!

"What is money meant for? Will I carry it to my grave? God gave it to solve problems. The world is like a stage or playground. We all come, play and pass on the baton for others to do their quota. The legacy you leave behind can either make you a legend or villain. We rise like the blooming flower at sunrise, present our fragrance, honey, beauty, color and shade. We freshen or pollute, sweeten or embitter, lighten or darken, shelter or expose and construct or distort our environment. That is why it is not only Ikem my son but all the people that are my responsibility. I must not only be my brother's keeper but also my sister's keeper. I was created for this. 'A Carmel's dung always points to the Carmel.' And like the Hawaiians say, 'a chief is known by his subjects.' May our stay here be good, our children's world better and our grandchildren's world the best."

The world was created to accommodate everyone no matter the divide you belong. However Mr. Uba had an incident, a fire accident that rendered him almost useless. He almost ran mental when fire gutted his property and destroyed virtually all he had earned over the years. No one could trace the source. The investigators thought electrical fault or hurricane lamp that was left in the store that was full of accelerants. No one knew exactly. "My enemies are at it again," Mr. Uba lamented. "They want to send me to my grave. Why, why will they not let me be? My late Mother had warned me of them," he retorted in retrospect. Mr. Uba now confirmed this as a generational problem. A blood thing! From stories he had as a toddler, he could count many fatal fire incidences they had in their lineage both patrilineal and matrilineal.

"The leopard cannot lose its spot or patches no matter how many times it washes. There is a spot on our skin that cannot let us hide. The mystery fire was attributed to my case. Even as a child, if fire did not kill me then, neither can it now. It was alleged that a barren woman in the family then who was one of our relations thought of me as a male child, the sole inheritor of the family wealth. So on this fateful day that most of the people had gone to market, she sent away the maid taking care of me on an errand so as to commit and cover her heinous crime. She threw me into the fire and left. The innocent cry of a baby calling for help was heard. The God of heaven sent his angels to protect me inside the fire just like the proverbial case of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. Passersby came and brought me out and to their amazement; the fire that engulfed the whole thatched house did not touch me. They nick named me the miracle child."

The mystery fire as was claimed was without trace and was in folklore said to be sent by the god of fire to punish mischievous people and their ill-gotten wealth. So Uba's detractors held unto that to smear him. "His sins have found him," they said.

The religious devotees of the fire god worshiped fire and saw it as divine or sacred. Like the sun god worship, the veneration of fire god is one of the forms of religion. The flame itself is the object of adoration, or it may be regarded as the manifestation of a divine power of fire spirit. Fire worshipping is the religious ceremony of fire walking. This to them is proof of the efficacy of the powers of this god. If you come out unhurt after walking through the fire then you are clean and worthy. Going contrary will evoke a fire accident as punishment. As they look at the flame, it is double edged, the consuming and purifying edges. It can also avenge them in time of war with its devastating ranges. Wild fiery fire was sent to fish out desperados who as was alleged ran away into the wilderness to escape wrath.

*****

Fire, the golden flame

Fire, the golden flame

Light, your transparency

Sun, your heat intensity

Electricity, your fallout

###

Light you bring to dark

Purity you give to dirt

Preservation, you stop decay

Fire, the golden flame

###

Fire, the glowing flames

Fire, the growing flare

Fire, the searching flash

Fire, the golden flame

*****

Ikem mellowed down and later agreed to accept the village offer but inside him, he still planned for Lagos. At the town union meeting at the town hall he apologized to the people effusively.

"My people, I am sorry for all the troubles of these last days. I have accepted your offer." Shouting erupted from the crowd in appreciation.

Chief Priest interrupted, "we need not waste any time now that he has seen reason. Ikem come out here for formal ordination." _Eze nmo_ , the priest poured libation with local undiluted drink, _okpokiri_ as is customary.

Ikem kneeling, the priest called on their ancestors and their gods. "Our ancestors, the gods of our forefathers and our fathers, _Agwu nshi, Igbudu, Ala, Eze nwanyi nmiri, Igwekala, Amadioha,_ it takes two to tangle. As your priest I give Ikem the spiritual mantle of the mandate of our gods. May he succeed even where others fail, guide, protect, direct and rule him." And all the people concurred with an amen and dispersed.

back to the top

*****

Chapter Seven

Ikem came back home and fell asleep. In his sleep he encountered an angel saying,

"Remember my son, I called you from your mother's womb to go and deliver your people. They have been sold by your ancestors. If you fail to answer my call they will all perish."

He woke up shivering while contemplating, "my plans, the wish of my people or the will of God?" Confused and in a fix, "Whoever you are calling me in my dreams, I have a plan for my people."

Ikem tried managing the school. "Look at me. My self-actualization is zero. My self-esteem is getting very low. I will escape to Lagos to pursue my dreams," he soliloquized. On his way back from school the following day he met a stranger, "hi, young man. I have not seen you here before. Where are you from and why are you here in our village?"

"I am on an assignment, on a mission and with a commission to fulfill this."

"What assignment or mission and with whose consent?"

"You are the school principal? What a waste using the right tool for the wrong service. Sowing a good seed on the wrong soil and doing the right thing at the wrong time and wrong place. You are living a wasted life."

"Men, bull shit," he exclaimed as he turned and left, muttering. "Who is he by the way to tell me what to do? In fact let me dress him down."

Ikem turned and didn't see the man again. My God! I was, I saw... he stammered."

Now frightened he hurried home and while contemplating whether he has seen an angel or hallucinating he decided to relocate to Lagos.

"I must leave this village and make it big outside, then I can come back and build schools, hospitals, bore holes, and so on for my people."

Uncle Mike came back from the city and entered his sanctum or occult room. "This boy," referring to Ikem, "cannot surpass me and my children in this village, at least not in this life."

His eagle occult bird flew in and talking to the bird, he instructed, "His destiny must be buried forever. He must not realize his potentials. Lock them up."

The eagle bird picked Ikem's spirit up supposedly and dropped it into a box and uncle mike padlocked it. On coming out to his sitting room he surprisingly found Ikem in his living room and shuddered.

"Uncle Mike you are welcome."

"Ikem, for how long have you been here?"

"Sorry uncle, it seems I took you by surprise."

"No, don't worry. How is your new job? I hope all is moving fine?"

"Uncle, fine," he pretended

"I trust your brilliant dispositions to the affairs of this Land. You are a genius. The first among equals, dutiful, savvy, erudite scholar, a can-do expert and you can still add more."

"Thanks. I must go. I came to greet you. How are Lagos people and your family?"

"They are all fine. Bye," As he uttered some incantations to foster his evil."

The truth is that Uncle Mike and all cult people like him thinks that no one knows their secret evil plans but his activities are well known by all but no one dare talk for fear of being killed. But God was still watching over Ikem for he had the call of God on his life. Ikem on his way home saw and wanted to help an old woman with her load.

"Mama, let me help you. This load is heavy for you to carry alone."

The old woman asked, "Who are you my son?" Feeling him and coming closer as her sight had grown dim.

"I am Ikem mama," Ikem responded

The old woman echoed, "Oh, Ikem God's chosen one, the chosen one! I remember Samuel when he heard the call, he didn't understand. Poor child! The day you understand, the better for Ehie village and their brother Ikpem."

"Mama, which Samuel are you talking about?"

"I remember Samuel in the Bible. You are called. God have trained you." She now mumbled to herself some words which Ikem didn't hear or understood.

As he got home and in deep reflection of the happenings of the past few days, Jerry closed his eyes as he relaxed on the bed. "At first it was angel in my dream saying, I was called from my mother's womb, then the young man, the right man or tool at the wrong place or job, now the old woman calling me the chosen one."

Ikem's mother coming in inquired of Ikem where he had been? "Have you eaten? You look downcast? What is on your mind? Cheer up. I know God is on your side. I remember when I was pregnant of you I vowed to God you will serve him. What I had in mind was that you will become a pastor but now I see you can still serve God as you serve you people as the first principal of our one and only community school."

Ikem looked more worried now on hearing his mother reinforced or buttressed his fears.

"What, you looked confused my son?"

"Why won't I be," he replied in an outburst. Realizing he had sold out, quickly pretended. "No, mother," putting up a false smile, "I'm okay. I was thinking of Lagos. Mum I want to take up a job in Lagos."

"Oh! my God, you want to kill me before my time?"

"No mother. I was only trying to hear what you will say. I am staying here with you and destroying my destiny."

Ikem after many years of unfruitfulness and suffering, he told his parents he has decided to become a pastor, an evangelist. All the people turned against him. He was preaching from place to place. He came home, feeling threatened.

"Ikem, where have you been? The father asked.

"I am from the post office. I got this book, "Unlocking Closed Doors," showing the book to his father. "The book is revealing. It looked like it is written about me. The story of my present life. I have been laboring under closed doors all these years."

"What closed door?"

"You, you will not understand." Ikem preached to his father, citing some content of the book.

"My son, what has gone wrong with you?"

"Dad is not what has gone wrong but what has gone right. I have peace since I gave my life and decided to be a preacher. I am called. That old woman..."

"What old woman?"

"Father, you'll not understand. I met an angel in form of an old woman."

Uncle Mike walked in greeting Ikem's father and then feeling contemptuous towards Ikem who greeted him.

"Hold your greetings? What did I hear? You are now a preacher. Where is your Church? Preacher without church! Look at you, very wretched. No money, no wife at your age. With all your education, you want to be a preacher, poor preacher. Shame! Oh, all my fortunes spend on you are gone."

Turning to Ikem's father, "the wrath of our ancestors, our creditors and our own loan to our gods will haunt us and generations unborn. Elder, do something before we are wiped away."

He now left disappointed and dejected. Uncle Mike now inside his sanctum tried to manipulate and reverse Ikem's decision but to no avail. The powers behind Ikem's pursuit are greater and stronger than his eagle messenger. He sent evil arrows, demons to kill but they backfired against him.

"Dubem, CD when did you come back?"

"Just yesterday evening and I learnt you are now an evangelist. I have been born again at school too."

"Praise God," Ikem responded as they embraced each other.

After some moment of silence and contemplation Dubem spoke up, "Ikem but with all your education. I mean..." He sighed and stammered without completing his speech.

"You mean my being a preacher? That is the way God wants it. I have peace since I took this decision. It is for the good of this village. I may not know all now."

They parted after chatting for some time but meanwhile Ikem's parent left their plight in the hands of God and posterity.

back to the top

*****

Chapter Eight

Going to the mountains, _Ugwu Nchara_ , a secluded place to pray and seek the face of their creator, was a wise decision.

"Though this matter was settled long ago on mount _Ugwu Nchara_ , we must go to reverse and enforce our rights. We must visit the mountains, the same place where these heinous crimes and covenants were contracted and generations were sold out whether by design or by accident. We must break the unbroken and hidden generational covenants and nullify their associated curses. This is an adventure we must undertake no matter the cost." That was the resolve of these three spiritual warriors. The mountain experience of seven days fasting and prayers in the presence of the Supreme Being was declared on earth and they obtained a response from above. Battle for survival!

"Agwu, are you set? What of Dubem? Ikem asked.

"Here he comes."

The three spiritual warriors set out for a battle to set their people free, unknown to them of what awaits them. The venue _Ugwu Nchara_ being interpreted literally as stained mountain – den of evil and wild beast. They came to a river, the first obstacle. The river was called " _Ori nne na nwa_ , devourer of mother and child." River _Ori_ for short was adjudged a mysterious river.

"I always have this hunch of a dangerous and dreaded river upon remembrance of the grandmother's story of this river," Ikem recollected.

"Grandma, but for her periodic tantrums, bloodshot as a result of smoke from the fire place and her loathsome demeanor, was a well-built God's masterpiece. In spite of her frail body, in her youthful days had seductive blue eyes, tall elegant body configuration, with innocent looking baby face, pointed teats and a body contour apropos to her class and time. Her structured framework from the cranium to the cervical, to the pelvic and from the humerus to the femur was just a portrait of God's masterpiece. Relishing her balance on her ever sturdy antique mahogany chair, she was ever composed to entertain and educate us with her endless stories. "No conjectures, no fallacies," she always added to punctuate her stories and always ended with _praemonitus praemunitas_ implying, 'to be forewarned is to be forearmed.' She unveiled the dread behind Ori River, the mystery river. Though of Ijaw descent, she spoke the Igbo language as if a freeborn to a fault. Grandma was married to an Igbo man who caught her fancy while in search of greener pasture with the oil companies. "What mystery?" She questioned. The growing smallness of the river and the vast expanding disappearances of human and animals that came near it! Narrow and shallow, surrounded by parasol shaped tree branches that created a darkened environment over the river even in the day.

Once upon a time, grandma began, a night hunter with his headlamp was approaching this river and when he saw a lion he climbed a tree leaving his headlamp underneath the tree. The mystery lion headed toward the shining light. When he aimed to shoot, the Lion spoke in a human voice begging him not to.

"You have been killing my children and that is why you wife of ten years marriage has been barren. Do unto others as you wish them do to you." A female benevolent voice from a lion? Out of fear he shot but nothing happened to the lion. Then an eerie sound began to come from the direction of the river. He jumped down and ran home dumb. People began to notice dead bloated bodies of big animals, females and their young as if dunked with legs up, till it happened to a visiting mother and daughter. The hunter recovered after some years and told his story. He stopped hunting.

Like the Dead Sea, _Ori_ River swallows everything that crosses its path. This dread lingered for generations.

Ikem suggested they pray, "This River is devilish. It is called devourer of mother and child."

They prayed, binding the forces of darkness and entered the canoe. The canoe man threw coins into the river. Dubem curious and not giving chance to anything demanded to know why he did so.

"To beg the owners of this river for safe passage," was the response.

Dubem expressing annoyance warned him not to do that again? "We are Christian warriors. Our God forbid us...

The canoe man cutting him short, "I know but allow me to do my job. That is my own way of appeasing my own gods."

As they argued, their argument was broken immediately by the emergence of a very big python out of the river, blocked their way, striking the waters and nearly overthrew their boat and all of them visibly shaken and frightened screamed. The python stood high above the waters, shrieked, feeling threatened in its own domain and habitat, smashed the waters again and again, then snorted and vanished.

Dubem, Ikem, Agwu, all together shouted, "The blood of Jesus, blood of Jesus, blood of Jesus. The python disappeared into the waters and as that was settling down, nearing the banks were other strange huge animals troubling the waters as if they have veered into an unauthorized territory.

Ikem, looking ahead, "see, see, go back he called out to their captain."

Agwu started crying forgetting his confessions of a sovereign mighty God who has the power to deliver those who trust in him. Within were fears and without were foes. Dubem castigated him. "Have you forgotten our God?"

The canoe man turned and used another creek to land. On landing expressing suspicion queried them. "Who are you people? We have not seen such in this river before," and picking up his bag left without his money. "You are evil load carriers. Some forces are after you."

Ikem looking unshaken called out to him, "take your money, come take your money. Where is the way to the mountain?"

Shaking his head in rejection, he pointed to the north, the direction of weird, seemly waiting and hungry creatures, from a distance. Ikem hung his knapsack on his back and waved them forward but Agwu troubled and with face taut, "I can't. I cannot go," with strong resistant emphasis.

Dubem weeping up sentiments but softly prodded, "you can't what? We can't go back now," feeling depressed.

All silent now and in despair and pensive mood tagged along.

"Let us march on," Ikem urged as he started singing in his native dialect. "I have someone that directs me. Only Jesus leads me on." Others joined and they moved through the creeks, Ikem leading, Agwu, then Dubem behind. Then Agwu experienced a strange wild wind blow with the earth quaking and trees falling. Agwu started hallucinating. Shaking visibly now, fell down, convulsing and frothing at the mouth.

Dubem shouted, "The blood of Jesus, blood of Jesus," calling out to Agwu while shaking his body to call his spirit back. "What is it?"

Ikem and Dubem looking confused began to pray for Agwu who now looked pallid and lifeless.

"This is not true. You must not die. What shall we tell your parents?" They panicked.

Ikem summoned up courage and charged the spirit, commanded in the name of Jesus and charged the devil to release Agwu. Ikem and Dubem now began to pray in strange languages which they called 'speaking in tongues.' Agwu got up and narrated what happened which frightened them all. Agwu was somehow frightened and bemused by this trance experience of being transported to another world.

"So you didn't experience what happened to me? What is wrong with me?"

Ikem smiling, "this is what we call trance or vision," he explained. "This is a sign that God is with us."

Meanwhile back home, Angus the magus knowing of their trip has been conjuring and sending spiritual forces to stop them. "The truth must not be revealed. This is the source of my income and survival. The secret and hidden covenants and pact must not be broken lest they become free and know what we know."

Later again after a short distance they had another encounter - Dubem screaming started vomiting seriously and fell down. "I am feeling tired inside. I can see strange and weird creatures. What is happening to me? They are goblins, running round the whole place making weird sounds as of disapproval. They were carrying and pointing spears at me." Then one threw the spear that hit his shoulders with physical blood at the point of contact. The others helped and encouraged him.

"This is just attack. They know we are coming so these are only reactions from the magus kingdom. Let us go forward. No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God, Ikem emphasized. They all picked up courage and moved on.

"Praise God," Ikem shouted on sighting the mountain ahead, "Look, there, is mount _Ugwu Nchara_."

All felt happy but while Ikem was pointing to the top, looking up he was bitten by a cobra on the right leg and he shouted, "Jesus, Jesus, Jesus!"

Ikem fell down as the snake tried to escape. Dubem picked up a big stick and hit the snake which looked as if dead and suddenly changed to a monster animal spitting fire, then to a horse-head and human body looking creature speaking with a human voice saying, "why disturb the dead? Why dig out the past? He that touches the anus will be soiled and stained by its product. You belong to another world. Leave us alone in peace," as it vanished thundering with a loud blasting echo. The dread fell on all of them. Ikem was now moaning in pains and his leg got swollen, two times bigger than the other and was oozing out foul discharge.

Dubem solicited for prayers as they all prayed together but their morale was almost gone. Ikem took some local herbs to neutralize the snake venom. He slept and woke up feeling nevertheless better. God heard their prayers. Ikem woke up feeling good relief but still limping a little and they found a flat ground at the top where they stayed the seven hectic days. Agwu vented out his disgust when he lamented, "Oh! A day's journey now looks like a forty day's journey in the wilderness."

back to the top

*****

Chapter Nine

Another mystery was that they were seeing the mountain from a short distance of less than five hundred meters with many track roads and an atmosphere exuding demonic aura. No farm land but just trees, tall shade building trees, nesting birds and animals. Each path they took strangely brought them back to the same spot, still with the mountain close but out of reach. They decided to follow a straight course that eventually got them there.

They prepared the ground – clearing the little grasses to make the place habitable and comfortable. They set up booths and hammocks under shorter trees in preparations

The first day of the retreat it started raining heavily and they were drenched after the rain. Ikem opening in prayers thanked God for his protection, Agwu started a song and all joined. Each raised songs as led and prayed.

"Now today our prayer items will be Prayer of confession and repentance,"– they confessed their sins, their family sins, community sins and ancestral forefathers' sins asking for forgiveness. If my people who are called by my name shall humble themselves and come to me in prayer, searching for me and turning from their evil ways; then I will give ear from heaven, overlooking their sins, and will give life again to their land." Later the sun dried up their wet cloth. They confessed their faults and family faults to one another to spiritually prepare the ground for intercession for their cursed land and people.

The second day they sang as usual and prayed and read from the scriptures, Ex. 20: 3 - 5.

As Ikem finished talking on this portion and the gods of their fathers, a great sandstorm enveloped the whole mountain with frightening lightening and thundering almost sweeping them off. Then there was a thunderstorm and lightening from heaven that dispelled the sandstorm with clouds from heaven and visibility was restored.

The sorcerer or his semblance in a whirlwind came out warning them of desecrating his shrine. "This mountain belongs to our kingdom." As he made his incantations snakes of different sizes and shapes began to file out but something strange happened. The snakes began to fight each other, small ones swallowing the big ones and becoming bigger. The last two pythons with the noise of a frightened horse attacked the snake charmer, magus. He was lucky to escape. As the snakes planted their tail in the soil, standing tall, a shining brightness as of the sun broke out from above. And from that midst came out the likeness of an angel, clad in flaming wings and holding flaming sword. Pointing the sword to the snakes consumed them like when a smoldering object dissolves. All that remained was ash that dissolved into the soil with the rains. Magus returned to his snake house to reflect on what happened, "and who are these fiery beings protecting these so called warriors."

"Oh they have depleted my snake reserves," he cried as he inspected the pots housing the snakes.

Magus learned also snake charming as well as magic with which he manipulated and controlled the people. When bitten by snake, the people go to him for treatment at a cost. When any household is visited by snake, they call on him. Making some incantations the snake will come out and he picks it to his reservoir. His house was full of snake skins hanging her and there which were sold to artisans and craftsmen who use them for manufacturing bags, shoes and leather works.

These young warriors, still fired by the passion to see their people freed continued. The sandstorm almost buried them and the deluge of snakes frightened them but that never deterred them as they drew inspiration from what happened between Moses and the Egyptian magicians in the bible.

"Deal with the gods of our fathers during this prayer session Ikem reiterated - _Amadioha, Ahia njoku, Kpukpukanka, Igbudu, Oboriobo Ekeperiofo, Igwekala, Eze Nwanyi Nmiri_ (queen of the coast). Our fathers worshiped snakes, stones, trees, animals and even masquerades. They were involved with cults like _Ekpe, Okonko_ and so on. We must repent on behalf of our fathers and people. It is a prerequisite for deliverance and land liberation," Ikem emphasized, sometimes injecting American slangs. Today they woke up the sleeping dead. Back home magus' sanctum and one of _Amadioha's_ shrine mysteriously got burnt. Angus, the magus after consulting his magical disc blamed it on intruders, spiritual intruders who are provoking the keepers of Ehie Dacunga. That day, lots of strange snakes filled the major road that led into the village.

On the third day, "We shall break all evil covenants," Ikem said passionately. My father told me that while he was on hunting expedition on this mountain _Ugwu Nchara_ before I was born, he was married to my mum for years without issue. While here he saw small supernatural imp like creatures, mischief-makers of about a foot or two feet tall running about the place asking him in human voice to depart from them.

"Those that kill children will never have their own children," they sang in unison. Out of fright he tried shooting into the air to scare them but his gun refused to shoot. We must now in prayers destroy all evil covenants that resulted from their endeavors.

-They chose poverty at the expense of having male children, now there is poverty - poverty all over. We will not negotiate with the enemy. Enough is enough that they have held us captive.

\- Our ancestors were warriors and hunters who drank concoctions, offered sacrifices to protect them even at the expense of their children's future and others.

\- Marine covenants of the water goddess which most of them contracted must be destroyed too.

\- Market place covenant - there was a situation as I learnt, Ikem said, that they laid the foundation of a market by dragging a pregnant woman round the market, dedicating her to the god of the market and later buried her at the foundation of the market. Atrocity indeed!

Today, the fourth Day they looked wearied by sleepless nights already observed but will deal with unbroken covenants - nullify curses from God as a result of man's disobedience, witches imposed or self-imposed curses.

\- Refugees curses and idols left behind after the civil war - thou shall have no other god beside me.

\- Deal with evil practices - hypnotism, magic, levitation, occultism, channeling (introducing people to demon), astral projections etc.

The fifth day was time to cleanse their land; make prophetic declarations on the land, the waters, schools and church environments and all public places and shrines, the day's coordinator announced.

The Sixth Day they asked God to heal their land and on the seventh and last day were all thanking and praising God for a successful retreat.

All went smoothly as they finished their prayers and broke their fast with the fruits they came with and slept. Midnight bandits came and beat them up inflicting injuries and took away their goods and the little money they had left.

Ikem crying in prayers queried, "Why, God? Did you not hear us? In all we thank you that we are more than conquerors." Courage and strength surged in after the prayers and he burst into his new composition.

*****

But for God

Where would I be? But for God who saved my soul

Where would I be, but for God

Where would I be?

Chorus:

God, you are so good,

God you are so kind.

With humble adoration and thanksgiving

And worship Lord we come

*****

The others still in prayers were concurring in agreement. After the prayers they embraced each other and left for home, singing. Ikem the song warrior continued singing victory songs

*****

Jesus you are a miracle man

We are here

The man of Galilee is enough for me.

Jesus is a miracle man

Jesus is the man of the time...

*****

They all got home safely and stopped at the city gate of the entrance to their village. Using Psalm ninety one they prophetically declared salvation, deliverance, prosperity, goodness and mercy to their kingdom and future. After that, all prayed together. Ikem led the prayers ending reading Psalm 24:7-10:

"Lift up your heads, O gates! And be lifted up, O ancient doors that the King of glory may come in.

Who is this King of glory? The LORD, strong and mighty, the LORD, mighty in battle!

Lift up your heads, O gates! And lift them up, O ancient doors that the King of glory may come in.

Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory"!

Passersby stood and watched the declaration and joined them in echoing Amen. All shouted Jesus, Jesus, Jesus is lord here and forever Amen. War in the heavenly!

As Ikem prayed, "lift up your heads. Oh ye ancient gates, everlasting doors, gates of hell, gates of our fathers' idols, gates of our enemies that the king of glory might come in. Who is this king of glory? The strong and mighty, the lord mighty in battle, the lord of hosts! He is the king of glory," the dragon and dark kingdom reacted violently in opposition, spitting fire, arrows, coming out of the rivers and releasing demons at the gates to foster power and ownership. Then heaven reacted with thundering, lightening and hail stones falling from heaven upon the dragon and demons causing them to run away. The angels descending from above with flaming swords and some with trumpets and began to invade the whole city. Angelic invasion, unknown to people but intermittently they made themselves visible and after helping someone they vanished. Angels on assignment!

Later Dubem and Agwu returned to their stations.

back to the top

*****

Chapter Ten

Not long Ehie people received a group of visitors who came in a bus to their village as crusade team with banners bearing the inscription, "Ehie city for Christ." They met with the chief elder. Ikem was also available to help and was full of happiness, interpreting for them. On crusade day they preached on the sins of the forefathers – the cause, the curse, the consequence and the cure

The cause: What our forefathers did

The curse: is poverty, calamities, problems their children are passing through now. How it is passed onto generations.

The consequence: Physical present calamities and future carry over effects.

The cure: Receive Jesus Christ, renounce and denounce the gods of your ancestors they announced.

They made an altar call and many came out except Uncle Mike and few elders who were not happy for what they saw as blasphemy against their ancestors. They would have stopped them but for fear of the reactions of the younger people who enjoyed what was going on.

As the crusade was rounding up another group landed introducing themselves as a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO). They seem to know the leader of the crusade team. This time Dubem and Agwu came home.

The group leader shouted out to the pastor from a distance, "Are you people here too?"

"We came on crusade – this is special assignment," the pastor responded. "What of you?"

The NGO coordinator or director responded that Ehie city was chosen as a model village for our pilot work. "We will build hospitals, schools, good road network and train the indigenes and so on."

"That's marvelous - an extension of our spiritual intercession to the physical," the pastor replied.

"We got sponsorship for community projects from above. Thank God you are here. We'll work with you as you already know the people."

"Any way we can contribute, we are available. We are in the help ministry." He introduced Ikem to the director. "He studied abroad - an engineer, a medical practitioner and a son of this soil."

"Thank God Ikem and am happy to meet you!"

"Thanks too, it is my pleasure as he introduced the chief elder."

Transformation started. Just how a little truth, discovered information brought reformation to the people, the bedrock of future transformation of the whole city. "You'll know the truth and the truth will set you free."

The three unknown spiritual warriors - Ikem, Dubem and Agwu conquered in the spiritual when they discovered the truth, uncovered the cause and recovered the lost treasure. And now a generation is being renewed. "Where are the Joshua Generations?"

Another vehicle came in with banner as Doctors without Borders. They all came down wearing doctors' suit and some Johnnies and ponchos with stethoscopes on their necks.

The doctor's group leader introducing himself said, "we are on special assignment here for some days with our mobile hospital to take care of the sick. Just send for the people."

Ikem so excited requested to know where they came from.

"Just send for the sick. We must complete our assignment. An outbreak of a killer disease that spreads more quickly and more extensively among rural populace is imminent. The epidemic, known as the Black Death in Europe, was estimated to have killed one-third of the European population. An outbreak of influenza in 1918 killed more than 20 million people around the world. A number of new diseases, including acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), Ebola hemorrhagic fever, hepatitis C, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) have been identified. New drug-resistant strains of influenza, tuberculosis, meningitis, and cholera have also appeared, causing resurgence in the number of cases of these diseases. Your community must be very lucky to have been chosen for this pilot work."

Ikem turning to the chief elder, "we must send for the people, not just the sick." News went round and the field was filled with the sick of all sorts.

They had diagnostic department, then different treatment sections for various healthcare and general Medicare. They continued and people were receiving instant healing. Strange and unusual, not just like how medical cases work.

"In fact, I have been healed." Uncle Mike muttered, turning to Ikem. "God has remembered us," now feeling guilty, "in spite of all my evil and atrocities."

"Uncle what evil or atrocities are you talking about? You have done nothing wrong? What do you mean?" Ikem questioned.

"Nothing really serious but imagine in a space of few days what we received. Our people are happy, trained, in spite..." Remembering and seeing his evil eagle bird, he withdrew and echoed Okay.

The chief elder consulted with the pastor, "tomorrow is Sunday and all of us must worship together for thanksgiving by 10 a.m. at the community school hall." As all responded yes o with expression - the villagers, crusaders, the non-governmental organization and doctors without borders.

The elated chief elder in consultation with Uncle Mike and Ikem suggested that all must gather tomorrow morning to thank God and continue the treatment. The non-governmental organization and the crusade team left that evening.

The following day all gathered at the Community School. Ikem coordinating ushered the people into the presence of God with worship songs.

"As we wait our visitors, I call on Dubem to come and lead us in choruses."

"Where are they? You and Uncle Mike should go look for them," the chief instructed.

Ikem and Mike came back disturbed, "we can't find any trace of them. We asked everybody, both the gate keepers – no trace of them and their vehicles."

"Chief gate keeper, how do you mean? Did they fly?" Everybody went searching without trace as they came back to hear what next – there was thundering and a voice spoke – why look you for messengers of God sent to heal your land? The visitors suddenly reappeared in their midst and vanished. Fear and crying griped all and many fell under the anointing for some time. Some got up singing. Uncle mike was last to get up confessing.

"Please forgive me. I have a confession. Chief elder stopped the people to listen. I killed Mr. OO's father and even tried to prevent Ikem from seeing the light. Each time I come and kill a cow, I use the blood to enslave all those who eat it and foster my powers. Forgive me."

Weeping, confessions, repentance ensued. Ehie city was purged and from them the light spread to the bigger community.

After Uncle Mike's confession, there was rage. The people rose in anger, chanting war songs. Some of the notorious youths left to consult. The people waited in fear while the chief elder tried to placate them. The youth leader who went to persuade them tarried longer than expected, keeping the people waiting in suspense!

"My people, the chief started, I now remember what my grandfather said to my father when I was young. He said their father told them that once a message from a far country came and said that a dry capsule of multiple seeds will explode and disperse widely to the clans of Ikpem of which we are part of. It will germinate and grow to shelter a lot of people. And this capsule will shoot out of Ehie clan. The first church was established here in _Ehie Dacunga_. Daniel and Josiah from among our neighbors, the children of _Duru_ committed a treacherous crime against the land. Out of their gluttony or longer throat they couldn't overcome the temptation of the dazzling freshness and mouthwatering sight of the ever growing and plump fish of the stream of _Duru_ clan. They ate fish from there which was forbidden by tradition and law. And knowing the gravity and consequences of their offense they ran away and went on self-exile. They lived in the wilderness or strange land or God knows where. The land boiled, searching and waiting for them to come and receive their due recompense but no one saw them. After many years have gone and people have forgotten them, thinking that the wild beasts must have eaten them, they resurfaced just like that. They came back dressed in white man's attire, answering the white man's name, and brought back the white man's religion. _Ndu_ now answered Daniel while _Nwoke_ answered Josiah. When the hard hearted children of _Duru_ refused them entrance they decided to pitch their tent here in Ehie in their maternal home and established the white man's religion which they called Church Missionary Society (CMS). Our people, ever-friendly, loving and compassionate Ehie later welcomed their religion at the expense of their good relations with the other seven clans in the bigger community of _Ikpem_. It is in our blood to receive and welcome strangers as our fathers taught us. They might be messengers of God of heaven, the God of harvest and plenty. We cannot afford to incur the wrath of the God above, lest he withhold his rain and bumper harvest. "One good turn they say deserves another." And as our name denotes, the elder continued, "the children who live at the boarder or boundary," we respect visitors, both the good and the bad. If you come peaceably, you are welcomed but if you come otherwise you get what you deserve. Ehie people were born warriors and hunters so their companion and walking sticks have always been guns and machetes. So you know what that implies for a trouble maker. Today the small sized Ehie by their benevolence have introduced this light and religion to the bigger community and kindred _Ikpem_.

Now we can say that that good seed has been disseminated rewardingly and abundantly in Ikpem community. Ehie village is the forerunner God sent to prepare the way but not without its cost of course. They paid the price that brought salvation, prosperity, and healing to the bigger community of seven clans of Ikpem of which we are one. Let there be light. God has healed our land.

Also the first primary school, an off shoot of the church and convent or monastery which later metamorphosed into a secondary school was built on Ehie soil, still showing our big heart. I am saying all these so you know your history and how your forefathers whose blood you carry lived. Travellers and pilgrims with heavy load often found succor and shelter with us before they continued their journey.

The stories have not finished yet. The good things that have come to us are bringing out all these sweet memories. Do you know that as farther away, as _Ahia_ Clan is far from us, the children of _Ahia_ trekked so long distance to school here with our children! I am proud to announce to you that Dr. M.I. schooled in Ehie village. He came all the way with the other children to enjoy the sweetness of our people.

And now to what most of you witnessed some of you older ones like Akobueze, the Nigerian and Biafra civil war ended on our soil after many years. When we heard that the Imo Bridge had been blown up, we started preparing for the worst. Some did not see the essence of keeping the goats and sheep. So it is better to die filled than the shame of dying in hunger .A lot of animals were slaughtered as if on a Passover night but then the good news, the news of the end of the war, as federal troops in a shooting jamboree so to say ran through the major road that cut across the whole Biafra. Our schools, churches and communities that have harbored refugees from different parts of the country reechoed and resounded with shouts of joy and relief as the refugees ululated again and again " _Ala Ehie echekwa la anyi o_ " that is to say the land of Ehie has protected them. This land stopped the war. All other land tasted the shell, the bombs, the grenades, the mortars, the ferret cars and tanks except for this land. Many of them have crossed rivers, mountains, tribes and nations. Many have endured hardship, suffered sickness and diseases and even hostile neighbors, thinking that their journey will continue till the end of the world. Ever ready to relocate for dear life! What defeat did they not see? What humiliation but now the end has come, not to die but the end of the war? War is never good and will never be justified for any reason. "An eye for an eye will only leave us both blind," they say. So a tooth for a tooth will only make us toothless barking empty bull dogs. For the refugees, our land stopped the bloodshed, the wandering, and the nomadic life. They lifted their hands towards heaven and blessed this land.

You must have heard also that when the economic blockage of the federal troops could not allow the humanitarian organizations to supply food and drugs to our suffering masses, the few that air lifted food and drugs like the Red Cross, the World Council of Churches (WCC), Caritas and even the trusted mobile force of the Biafra leader were all quartered and lived amongst us. We had the Biafra organization of freedom fighters, the boys company for the youth trained in guerilla warfare. The Biafra leader, most nights left Madonna, the Biafra headquarters to seek refuge in our land. _Ehie ga adi_. Ehie will live forever. Our Fathers light shall not die. "My eyes are growing dim and our fathers' voice calling, I can hear." One day before I pass on God willing, I will tell you more of the thing you don't know, the things that make us thick.

The Elder was concluding the arousing sweet talk that took everyone yonder when the disenchanting voices of the aggrieved youths interrupted the reverie.

And lo behold the aggrieved youth could be seen afar carrying tree branches, wearing strange outfits as if going for revenge. The people stood up for their lives. Mothers calling their children to their protective hands and the elders held their breath in this sudden befuddlement wondering what will happen next. Their dissenting voices rose vociferously as they got nearer. Fear, uncertainty, anxiety, fright and distress charged the air. The people were all eyes, ears, some looking up to heaven for succor or angels on assignment or an instant miracle, others to the invading coming danger, with their hearts in their hands expecting the worst. The more they waited the more the pains and anxiety, the more their hearts failed them. With blood shot up, the inevitable, the inevitable it seemed loomed. Then what else! Wait...

back to the top

*****

The Last Sacrifice

(Angel series Book 2 - Game Changer)

"It was the talking book – yes it was the talking book that I read. The occult book titled ZuZu. Out of curiosity I wanted to know their belief. I only did not hear but I also saw them all entering me. They were crying the sacrifice, the ransom must be paid in full," Amos formally called Agwu cried out. Amos must be paranoid, a psychiatric disorder of delusion. He could not sleep – insomnia, anxiety and stress enveloped him as if his heart will explode.

"This book is not ordinary," he complained as he turned it inside out, went through the title and content of the back matter. Some force so strong glued his eyes and hands to the book that he couldn't let go but devoured the content like a hungry angry lion. As he read into the night, the 'talking book' presented an image or visual, like a television screen. Amos was not only hearing but seeing visual images of short, one foot tall creatures in theatrical display and who intermittently pointed at him to come to Ori River, the venue of the last sacrifice and ransom. "You were sold and the ransom must be paid to untie your people's destiny. They are in purgatory sort of. We are 144 Demons here to save you," they echoed together. As their message was being judged and pondered over by Amos, the likeness of Magus zoomed in and out of the talking book screen saying, "Believe them not. You must not visit Ori River and must not perform the sacrifice. They want to thwart your grandfather's wish." The altercation between the forces of Magus and the demons increased and developed into power contest. The water war and the fire war were set for the scramble for Amos' life.

"Why is my life so important to these mundane forces or evil kingdom? For whosoever the son shall set free shall be free indeed and free forever," Agwu, now christened Amos said to himself. He looked like someone under a spell as a strong force tied his mind and eyes to the book. It was getting midnight with everyone asleep. In the dead of the night these demons hoarded themselves together, challenging magus who claimed ownership of this territory and dare them not to trespass."Ehie is my territory and you cannot trespass." They responded by spitting fire at Magus who laughed hilariously as tongues of fire just brushed over his body without harming him. Magus sent his own fire whose effect was as merely equal match and did no harm to the demons. The captain of the demons so it seemed stood out from the rest and commanded the goddess of Ori River that swallows to ascend and descend. A flood of ocean exploded with the force of a Geyser, discharged hot spring which erupted intermittently in a column of steam and hot water, jets of water 3 to 8 m high, descended and flushed magus away to who knows where. Amos, as he watched the contest was confessing openly, "When the enemy will come in like a flood the Spirit of the Lord will raise up a standard against him." Amos seemed to have begun to imbibe and follow the tenet of his faith. Agwu is the name of an Idol so he rejected it and all the evil covenants, curses associated with it. He adopted his new name of his new faith. "I cannot be a ransom. I cannot be sacrificed because the last sacrifice has been made. The last ransom has already been paid in full. I am now a new creation," he pleaded. But as the battle in the zuzu book continued he touched the book as if touching the television screen to switch it off. The unusual happened as the 100 demons filed from the screen into his body physically. His eyes turned inside out, his hands and legs became stiff as if in a rigor mortis. His tongue was caught between his teeth but he managed to scream for help falling over the house furniture and wares that woke up those around him. Amos became comatose and was rushed to the hospital. Day and night were all hallucinations and a replay of the magus and demons contest...

Jerry Boy visited home and headed to Ori river which was almost covered with bush though still with traces of the old river course pathway with not much water. He went with a hunter acting as his guide, someone who knew the story of the mystery stagnant portion of water. In their process of exploring the whole environment they stumbled over an Antelope which the hunter saw as a bonus and shot without missing. On close examination they found a crystal or medal hung over her neck. Jerry boy's curiosity awakened. At first they thought it must have escaped from a zoo but the crystal medal bore no inscription or imprint. But as Ikem fiddled with the stone or crystal he was transported to another world. Ikem alias Jerry Boy set to discover the mystery behind river Ori or Ori Nne as it was called for short. The mystery river her grandma and older people dreaded and talked about. Why everything, animal or human that passed through this shallow waters disappears like the Bermuda triangle, as long as they came in pairs of mother and child whether animals or human. Where do they go? No trace of blood or bones even to where it was claimed the small expanse of water joined the bigger flowing river Alum. Ori is a stagnant water deposit just like the Dead Sea that receives but never visibly gives out and no life in the dead dark and black water. The next flowing river Alum was said to be separated and not linked. Is there connection underground? That we leave to the hydro biologist and scientist but the mystery remains with us. Jerry's journey was turbulent and hazardous. Through deserts, through rivers, stones, eerie, noisome stretches he moved not knowing what to expect but he was determined to solve this puzzle. Then fear, it was the roaring of a lion he thought. No it was a multi-headed creature of almost immense size roaring, spiting fire and bulldozing its way as if embedded in the walls of the cave. The walls of the cave were breaking with cracking sounds. Jerry retracted to one side with hands over his face to forbid the blinding dust. He was trapped sort of as he could not go back nor move forward. He was trapped under the monster that looked angry and felt awoken by a disturbing intruder. Surprisingly as the giant creature looked down at Jerry did nothing for quite some time but piteously picked jerry, it seemed and dropped him on an elevated wall that surfaced on its own. The cave gave way or opened to a plain deserted expanse of land bounded by rivers and sea creatures. It looked like a beautiful garden. Then this angel in the likeness of a huge security guard appeared and rescued jerry from the monster. As he led jerry through a narrow path that terminated at a door post with this beautiful magical figurine centrally placed at the crystal door. The figurine was decorated with human numbers like the old telephone box. Each number tapped brought out something frightening...

back to the top

*****

Appreciation

Thanks for finding time to read this. I hope you have been blessed. I will appreciate if you share this with your friends and write a customer review and rating down the book page online as it will help others share from this blessing too. Thanks so much and may God's divine favor follow you. back to the top

*****

Appendix A: How to become a Christian

You must be born twice i.e. - the natural or biological birth and the spiritual birth before you can see the kingdom of God. You must be born again. Are you saved? If the Lord comes now will you be taken to heaven? Is your name written in the book of life? Where will you go when you die - heaven or hell? Tell yourself the truth, and do something about your situation. Heaven is a prepared place and for prepared people. Hell is a prepared place and for unprepared people. Do you want to be born again? Then

1. Recognize yourself as a sinner

\- For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God - Rom. 3:23.

\- You are a sinner by birth for in sin did your mother conceive you- Psalm 51:5

\- You are a sinner by choice for all we like sheep have gone astray. Isaiah 53:6; Rom.6:23.

2. Repent and believe in Jesus Christ

-Repent you therefore, and be converted that you sins may be blotted out, Act 3:19.

3. Confess your sins

-With Godly sorrow, confess your sins and tell God you are sorry. Ask him to forgive you all. 1 John.1:9.

4. Accept Jesus Christ into your heart.

Say this Sinner's Prayer - Lord Jesus, I thank you for forgiving me according to your word. Come into my heart. Be my savior and Lord. Remove my name from the book of death and write it in the book of life. By faith I believe I am saved, Amen.

Congratulations for your bold sincere decision and confession. Write me today so that I pray along with you. Join a living church near you where they preach the truth **.**

back to the top

*****

Appendix B: Testimonies from Pastor Ikechukwu Joseph's Ministry - Testimonies.

**-Ordinary Men with Extraordinary Power**

-Common Men with Uncommon Results

-Usual Men with Unusual Anointing

-Weak Men with Mighty Deeds

-Unschooled Mortal Men with Immortal Visions and PhD-Producing Life Histories

**\- Pastor Joseph,** thank you so much for your message! God is so good! So many things happened since January 2017 came, and one of the aMr.ng things is that Lord Jesus CHANGED my heart from fear to boldness to GO out there and share God's love to people. It was February 2017 when I heard God's voice telling me to go to the province and share Jesus Christ with the children there.

**\- Faiths miracle** on wattpad about my book, Discovering Yourself - OMG! This is aMr.ng. You should update more. This is just I don't know extraordinary. May the good Lord bless you. I'm in love already with this book.

\- **Misstmaria on wattpad** about my book - Discovering Yourself - Wow!!!! This is incredible and how right you are. What a wonderful lesson here!! Thank you!

\- ByronWalker - I really enjoyed the book (Strategic Spiritual Warfare). ByronWalker6 voted on Wattpad for Strategic Spiritual Warfare

\- I Love reading although I took my time to read this book it is full of the anointing. Stayed up reading until i could not anymore, already daylight in morning - got some rest and woke up in the presence of God to worship that is how it impacted me.

The prayers in this book also stirred up a desire within me to see the answers to those prayers. I will read more books from this Author

He knows the scripture and speaks clearly and the anointing backs him up all glory to God.

Go ahead read it you'll be glad and you will be touch by the beautiful presence of the Holy Spirit, awesome read and will re-read again. Everyone should read this book highly recommended (referring to Holy Spirit Anointing: Bible Faith Nuggets Series Book 5 )

-Rebecca Belardo (Georgia) -

\- Thank you so much for this book .It just showed up on my Kindle when I was seeking a Word from The Lord . This truth is truly from The Lord THANK YOU SO MUCH. JUANITA. USA

\- Rated 5 stars, It was so refreshing - By jamar w jackson

\- Loved it. I learned a lot of things in this book. Wow it was Slender. Loved this book PRAISE God

\- Five Stars By Gary blakely, Format: Kindle Edition Verified Purchase

Great Book on the anointing, if you want to learn more

\- Five Stars by Betty H

Great book, full of wisdom, awesome author/writer!

\- By Smackeyon - Power packed and informative.

\- Five Stars by Will Pearceon - Very good and enlightening.

\- By Amazon Customer "rosa lee watson" rated Five Stars

Love it.

\- Greetings, am so blessed while searching books on amazon came across your book the Holy Spirit Anointing Bible Faith nuggets book 5. (Now is volume 1 of Holy Spirit series book one) I started reading and truly did not want to stop. Am at page 690 it has really lifted me up and am anticipating to finish reading it and looking to read other books. It has just brought an awakening and ministered to me deeply. Thank you for sharing the knowledge God has grace you with, God bless you Joseph. Attentive and embracing God's presence Prophetess Rebecca

\- Merry Christmas Pastor Joseph, you have been a big blessing to me by your messages that I have been receiving. I have used them on my pulpit. God bless you and may he shower his blessings upon you.

Your brother Pastor E. A. [Kenya]

\- Dear Pastor Joseph,

You have been of a great blessing to me so much. Your teachings are so encouraging and very powerful. I am praying for you so much. I have been getting your teaching materials and I have been asking myself where you are coming from? Which country? May God bless you so much.

Pastor N. O. O (Kenya).

\- Dear pastor IK,

Thanks so much for the inspirational messages you have been sending to me. They have been of a very great help. God will richly bless you.... Pastor Benjam

\- My name is Matthew. I received an e-mail that was not intended for me. But i see God's divine hand diverting it to me. It was not even addressed to me at all. it was sent to Veronica Argentina. I have been seeking Gods anointing on the ministry he has called me into. And i have realized before I even received your e-mail that i did not want to do this without Gods hand of anointing upon it. There are just too many people out there that are in ministry that have not been anointed and called with anointing. If I speak or lay hands on someone for healing and do not have Gods hand in it I would rather not even bother. As of late I have been just seeking a deeper relationship with Jesus and only ministering to those that the Lord sets right in front of me. The Lord has given me a great burden for the broken heart and the captive to sin; my own heart is broken before the Lord in this. When I was in Peru I tasted of this anointing and as i came back to the U.S. there remain a remnant of that anointing for a while. But last night i was asked to speak and it was just words without the power of the life of Christ in them, i have grieved throw the night and woke to find this e-mail that was not even intended for me. (N.B: Bible Faith Nuggets Serous Edition he received was on Davidic Anointing. Same time he was asking for anointing from God). I love the Lord so much and want to serve him. He has done so much for me. I will never be able to repay him for his goodness. SEEKING GOD DIRECTION IN MY LIFE AND WHAT HE WANT ME TO DO AND GO.

\- G. M (U.S.A)

\- AWESOME Book. I'm glad you allow God to speak thru you to tell me where I was off track and how I should now proceed and proceed through this journey. Thank You and may God continue to Bless You.

\- D. Woodrow

Hi, Pastor Joe,

I am actually blessed with your newsletter, even though we have not been able to have time together whether physically or on net. Please keep the line hot, for the Lord is your strength.

Shalom.- O.J

Dear Pastor Joseph,

Thanks a lot for your words of inspiration and insight. May God richly bless you and the ministry to continue with the good work you are doing?

P. H

Thanks for your message. I wonder where you got this from. Keep the candle burning.

-E.V (yahoo mails)

Pastor Joseph,

Thanks for all the sweet messages you have been sending. This is to wish you the best of this glorious year. I want to let you know that the Good Lord will continue

to bless and uphold you

J. M (Nigerian)

Thank you my brother. You are sent by God. I have started my fasting today and I am very encouraged by these messages. Are you in Africa or abroad?

N.O (South Africa)

I am very much happy to have received this wonderful Book from you. I thank you and I wish to say that there is nothing you could have done better for me then this Book you have sent to me. Oh Pastor just the very few pages I have had the chance to read, I was tempted to say it was just me in the picture. I really am happy to have this Book. I wish you all the best and I say stay blessed but like the little Oliver, I ask for more. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

-D. J. N (GHANA)

Pastor Joseph,

You never,never cease to bless me. I loved the writing on the borrowed axe head! AMEN.AMEN.AMEN!!!!!! (Full title of the Edition she referred to was Borrowed Axe-Borrowed Anointing)

-Pastor D. S(U.S.A)

This is truly an eye opening message that came straight from the throne room of God. I passed it on so others may be blessed.

-Evangelist Valrie (U.S.A)

Beloved,

Thanks a million for this and others you've been sending. They've all blessed my heart.

Shalom. U.I (Nigeria)

I am not sure how I managed to get on your mailing list but thanks this was something God wanted me to hear (Referring to Bible Faith Nuggets).

LYN

Hi Pastor,

I was edified after reading this nugget, the almighty God give you more inspiration and knowledge of His word.

-CO.(U.S.A)

Dearly beloved,

Thanks for your beautiful and inspirational messages, they are so timely , may the Lord continue to make space for you in this ministry, do please include your contact phone number, I like to speak with you .God bless you real good. Amen .I.E

Greetings Ikechukwu,

Blessings and greetings in Jesus' precious name! Thank you for your letter and words of encouragement! May God use you for the establishment of His Kingdom in the earth, and establish truth and justice. The LORD reigns, let the earth be glad; let the distant shores rejoice. Remain blessed in HIM!

-Pastor S.A (Ukraine)

Dear Joe

Thanks for your love, and also thanks for sending me a good message that bless my soul, i enjoyed it. May the Lord richly bless you, thank you so much.

REV. V. U .J (Nigeria)

Dear Pastor, good day in Jesus Name. I read your book but I see it that God want to give me Victory because what I have read so far describes my 11 year old problem.

Kate (Nigeria)

I Praise the Lord for all you that have sent me, emails of encouragement. If I would express how it had made me feel, we would all be in tears.

-Evangelist Neal (U.S.A)

back to the top

*****

About The Author

Pastor Ikechukwu Joseph is an International consulting educator, publisher, a notable poet, author, speaker and song writer. Ikechukwu Joseph, the author of Discovering Yourself and the publisher of bestselling Unlocking Closed Doors, Strategic Spiritual Warfare, Holy Spirit Anointing, The Study of the Book of Colossians (a verse by verse analytical study commentary), A Study of the Book of Philippians (a verse by verse analytical study commentary) and many more, trained as a Science Educator, Biologist, System Engineer and Website Developer.

Ikechukwu is the president of the Living Way Ministries and director of The Living Way Productions, The Living Way Academy, a non-profit making organization established under the leading of the Holy Spiritto minister to the body of Christ through conferences, seminars, books, music and end-time deliverance messages. This worldwide outreach of the Living Way Ministries is supported by gifts of those who are interested and concerned with reaching out to the perishing world

Ikechukwu is also a graduate with M. Ed, B. SC and a duly accredited ordained Minister with Evangelistic Messengers Association International, Tennessee, U.S.A. Pastor Joseph served God under different organizations like The Scripture Union, Four Square Gospel Church, NIFES, Fellowship of Christian Students, Grace of God Mission, and Believers Gospel Mission before God led him into the Harvest field.

back to the top

*****

Author's Contact

**Email:**

tlwgom@yahoo.com

Telephone:

+2348035033228

+2348022957255

Website: http://ikechukwujoseph.com

###

Connect With Me Online

Sign up for our newsletter: http://eepurl.com/b_ouQn

Website: http://ikechukwujoseph.com

Twitter: http://twitter.com/ikechukwujosep1

Facebook: http://facebook.com/ikechukwu2joseph

**Wattpad:** http://wattpad.com/ikechukwu2joseph

Medium: http://medium.com/ikechukwujosep1

back to start
