 
The Beginning (Forget Me Not Series #1)

By Alison Charm

***

Copyright © 2013 Alison Charm

Smashwords Edition

***

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this free eBook. Although this is a free book, it remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be reproduced, copied and distributed for commercial or non-commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy at Smashwords.com, where they can also discover other works by this author. Thank you for your support.

This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, places or events is purely coincidental and the product of the author's imagination. The author does not support or encourage illegal action towards persons underage.

Thank you for your support and respect for the property of this author.

Adult Reading Material

***

Praises for Alison Charm's Books

"Could not stop the smile from forming on my face and its continuous presence after the ending." – Minnie

"Well written, unusual plot, interesting characters. Recommend." – B. Shumway

***

Table of Contents

Prologue

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Books by Alison Charm

Remembering (Forget Me Not Series #2) Excerpt

Mirror Part 1 Excerpt

***

Prologue

Perhaps it was all a dream because it was impossible that something like this could ever exist. These events existed in stories like Twilight, not in real life. Seriously – could this be the beginning of a mental problem? If Reina did not survive and lived in this situation for the past 2 years, she would have had gone over the deep end a long, long, LONG time ago. Her sister, Feina, well, foster sister...actually she was a foster child as well, is a werewolf. That first year was the hardest they had ever faced together...even more so compared to the period when they had to live on the streets. But to say the least, they survived and all was better until a drunken customer at the bar her sister worked at turned her into a real half human half wolf. According to her sister, that night was such a haze, she barely remembered it. Anyway, all that didn't matter to Reina – no use crying over spoilt milk – was one of her pet peeves. Feina had always commented on how Reina was the most optimistic person in the world. Even when Feina dragged Reina out of their foster parents' house and hitched a ride across Wisconsin to Manhatten with nothing but themselves, Reina never complained. She might have had shown the occasional frustration but she had never voiced it out or denounced Feina as the evil culprit. Reina never wanted to remember those days but being stuck in their beaten up Volkswagen with Feina and heading out all the way to the outskirts of a small town in Winslow, Arizona would make anybody start to reminisce how events had led them to embark on such a long road trip.

Chapter 1

Reina had arrived at their foster parents, Jack and Elizabeth Locks's home when she was 6 years old. Her mother abandoned her at a theme park some time ago and she had landed almost immediately at the Locks's doorstep. Feina was less fortunate, she was already with the Locks for a year. She was older by a few months but despite everything they instantly took a liking to each other. There were many foster children there as well, but only Reina and Feina developed what is similar to a family relationship. They complemented each other like they were fated to be a pair. Feina was outgoing and irrational, whereas Reina was calm and collected.

For 6 years, they lived with the Locks. Those years were spent in full of fear. A girl could not go walking alone in that house without another. Perhaps it was not uncommon for abusive foster parents in the past 50 years but society didn't improve much in the year 2000. The Locks must be one of those foster families that fell under the radar. As true to their names, the Locks got locks for everything from windows to cupboards. A jail for a convict would have only one lock but their room had at least seven. One would think that a six year old would be too short to reach those locks or understood the mechanism in which to open them anyway but not the Locks, they didn't want to take any chances.

It was the Locks' principle to not touch children below the age of 13. By the time Reina and Feina were 10 years old, all the boys were gone and they were the youngest left. The only remaining were three of their "older sisters": Cheryl, Lima and Nina ages 15, 16 and 18 respectively. Cheryl was pregnant, Lima was crippled and Nina suffered under some type of psychosis. It was impossible to get out of the house when it was locked from the inside and nevermind going to school. They were homeschooled like the girls living in the middleages – all the girls needed to know were cooking, mending and basic reading. They would have had nothing if they hadn't been educated before they arrived to live with the Locks.

As excluded from the outside world as they were, Reina and Feina knew what was happening. For the past four years, they heard things; the screams and cries at night and the battered looks their sisters have in the morning.

"Act like you enjoy it" was the advice they gave to one another. "Why not run away?" asked Feina. The others only chuckled, gave them the look that was reserved for those who were naïve and Nina replied almost flippantly, "Where can we go? That woman is always in the house, there are locks everywhere and don't forget the videos."

Feina and Reina looked at each other and turned to them with confused expressions on their face. "You'll see it soon enough," replied Cheryl with a haunted look which quickly faded as she stared off past their heads. "I believe it'll be soon." Reina and Feina shivered and unconsciously held each other's hand. It was a habit when one of them felt uncomfortable. It was an eerie premonition.

The premonition was fulfilled when they were almost 12 years old. One late afternoon, they were called out by Elizabeth. "Sit here and watch, you two. Watch and learn." She barked. Her styled red brownish hair waved with her command while her wrinkled face remained with her same scowl each time she needed to address her foster children, as if she exerted herself with the work. Reina and Feina braced themselves as always but their hearts hammered ever so quickly as they approached the sofa. They never dared to sit on it. The sofa was for the "guests," namely, the social workers that rarely comes by. It was all a ruse. Their foster parents were charmers - they were smooth and smooth - Jack, the perfect and protective husband and the dutiful wife, Elizabeth who stayed at home to care for their children. Not to mention, Jack was a successful computer technician. Everyone within miles considered them naturally beautiful in their own way. Jack was big and obsessed with exercising compared to her wife who enjoyed yoga. And to add on to their normality, their house was a typical two-storey house like their next door neighbours. However, if one looked deeper into it they'd realise the abnormality, the "play" room Jack took his daughters to was soundproofed and the multiple locks for security were all over the house.

Reina and Feina held the other's hand and sat at the edge of the sofa. Reina looked up at Elizabeth with her weary greyish - brown eyes, her skin smooth and pale. Her hair shiny and black that looked nourished despite the fact they ate one meal per day. Her eye colour gave her an exotic appearance. Later, they found out Reina was from the ethnic group, East Asian and Feina was part of the Caucasian or Westerners.

Feina lifted her chin almost defiantly and stared with her pale blue eyes. Her dark blond hair chomped short in mismatched length as punishment for not fulfilling commands. Elizabeth smirked and pressed play using the remote. Before leaving them, she threw back an order, "Don't move until you finish watching it." Reina and Feina stared at the screen where two naked, dishevelled brown hair women were kneeling on the floor, between two hairy thighs, licking some long black stick. They were making loud slurping sounds. Slurpppp...Slurp...

Reina jumped and gave a short squeal. Both her hands reached to cover her mouth. Feina balled her fists against her side. There were no words to describe what they were seeing. The horror blinded their eyes forever.

"Keep your eyes open!" Elizabeth yelled. Reina and Feina jumped at the sound and they held onto each other. Feina tucked Reina under her chin; they could feel the other shaking and rapid heartbeats. Despair dawned on them that day in those 5 hours which felt longer to them for the first time in their lives. Before, it was just fear. Fear to get hurt and be separated from the other but never true despair for their lives.

That night, Lima and Cheryl were called to the "play" room and only they and their last sister was left. Nina was pregnant and sleeping beside, Jack Junior, Cheryl and Jack's two year old child. Feina and Reina slept as usual on their bunk bed facing each other.

"I don't want to live like this anymore," Feina murmured so softly that Reina almost dismissed it. The moonlight streamed into the room through the floral curtains of the small window and illuminated Reina's eyes, filled with emotion for the first time in years.

"Let's leave." Feina's eyes began to brim with tears, "Come with me."

Reina could only nod as a single tear fell down to her temple. After a long moment, she whispered, "How?" Feina fell silent, how indeed? They were weak, gullible in a sense, uneducated. They couldn't trust anyone else.

From then on, they began to look for ways to escape. They became more observant of people and their surroundings. Three months later, their chance finally came. Baby number two was coming and everyone was preoccupied. Jack was at work and Elizabeth was watching T.V. as usual. Feina stormed into the room to find Reina kneeling on the floor, holding the new baby girl. The other two sisters were trying to stop the blood flowing out of Nina's body. "We got to leave now." Feina shouted urgently, pulling Reina by the arm.

"Shh..." Reina looked past Feina and hissed just as urgently, "Elizabeth is still here!"

Feina waved the many keys around the circular key holder Elizabeth always held like a lifeline in front of them. Reina's eyes bulged at the sight of those clinking keys.

"I hit her with a chair. So she's sleeping right now." Shocked, collective gasps burst from her audience's lips.

"You d-d-didn't.." Reina stammered.

"No. She's still breathing." Reina sighed in relief. Even they knew what the word 'murder' means. Feina grabbed Reina's arm and tugged her in a panicky haste. "Wait," Reina exclaimed and turned to her other sisters, "What about...?"

There was silence except for the baby girl's crying. Finally, Lima whispered, "Go."

Chapter 2

They ran. The child with only a thin towel was crying in Reina's arms as they ran. 10 minutes? 20 minutes? 1 hour? 3 hours? They could hardly tell. With no sense of direction, they ran. Houses and houses pasted by. Each time they see a car coming they darted down another street. It was the first breath of fresh air they took in since 6 years ago. They never thought of taking anything, the excitement of freedom overtook their rational mind.

"It's too late for me," Lima sniffled, trying to hold back her tears. "My leg will only slow you down. Cheryl would never leave her child behind. And Nina...I'm afraid Nina won't make it. Just promise me to take care of Nina's child."

"I hope they're alright," Reina huffed out each word, trying desperately to draw in oxygen from her painful throat. Each draw of breath pained her but in a satisfying well. The taste of freedom was still there, pumping in her veins.

"They will," replied Feina, much more strongly than how she felt, "They've lived far longer with them than with us. They won't kill themselves."

Interrupting the silent night was the baby's renewed cries, crying with exuberance. Reina kissed her head and bounced her up and down like how Cheryl did with her child. The baby calmed down slightly.

"What's wrong with her?" Feina peered down at the baby.

"She might be hungry." Reina's hands roamed around the towel, feeling for wetness, "Definitely hungry." Reina remarked and turned to Feina. "We need to find food. Not just for her but for us too." Reina couldn't help keep out the hopelessness in her voice. Feina rotated on her feet in the same spot, taking in her surroundings.

"I remembered a long time ago when I go to church with my parents. The church gives out food to help people without a home."

"Let's try it." And so they walked. Sometimes jog, but the adrenaline was gone. Staggering in the semi-darkness, they finally arrived at a church. A feeling of relief washed over them and they silently crept in. A skill all foster children of Locks mastered fairly quickly. Elizabeth hated noises. Especially cries. She whipped Cheryl for Jack Junior's cries because she couldn't hit the baby. Jack would not allow it, surprisingly. His strange gentle behaviour was too difficult to contemplate to their young mind.

Reina and Feina passed by rows and rows of benches until they reached the altar. They stared up at the person who was pinned to the crucifix for a while before heading to the back and searched for hopefully, the kitchen. There they found bread and canned food. Feina immediately bit into everything in her reach. Reina still holding the baby tried as well.

When the baby renewed her cries, they snapped out of their momentarily feast and began searching food for the baby. Reina tried to cover the noise with her hand loosely over the baby's mouth and rocking her side to side but to no avail. They found a bottle of milk and tried to feed it to the baby but she coughed it out.

"What in the world!" The voice made both of them jump and turned to see an old bearded man standing at the open doorway. "Who are you girls? And what are you doing to that baby?"

"She's our sister. She got hungry so we looked for food." Feina replied quickly. Reina quickly looked at Feina, her eyes pleading for a miracle.

"And where are your parents?" the man demanded with one eyebrow raised. Reina and Feina stopped short. What should they say? No one will believe them. If they said they ran away from home, they would be brought back immediately. Reina chewed on her lower lip, her eyes lowered and darted from side to side – a habit she developed when she was thinking of something to say that wouldn't be a lie. She hated lies. Feina try to keep eye contact with the man while subtlety trying to look past his head for an escape route. The highly popular one at the moment was to kick his knee and then run for it.

"Alright, you don't have to tell me. I know what happened." The old man made a dismissive hand gesture and hobbled towards one of the cupboards. There he produced a bottle and container with a baby face on it. "A baby is too small to take in food. She needs baby food." He gave the container a pat and set to work. Feina put her arm around Reina's shoulder and gave her a reassuring smile. They were finally safe.

~~~

"Wake up." A voice drifted into Feina's dream. Why? She didn't want to leave the warm bed. The old man was very nice and understanding to provide them with clothes donated to the church and a bed to rest. However, the voice was very insistent and began shaking her awake. "What is it?" Feina groaned as she rubbed her eyes and tried to focus on Reina who was chewing on her lips again and her head kept swishing towards the door. If not for the light from the open doorway, they would be completely cloaked in a blanket of darkness. It must be the dead of night by now.

"Feina," hissed Reina, "I heard the man call them. They'll be coming soon!" This brought Feina up in no time. Her heart nearly jumped out of her chest before her feet landed on solid wooden floors. Reina rushed off to get the baby whereas Feina dashed as quietly into the kitchen as possible to gather the things they needed into a plastic bag she found. A lesson they had learned was to run away with food. Reina entered clutching the newly clothed baby, thankfully in a deep slumber after her feeding. Reina was wearing a jacket and she held another one for Feina. "Hurry! I heard a car!" They hid behind the kitchen counters as voices floated in.

"I was so afraid! Imagine my surprise when I came home from work to discover they were gone! Feina has always been the troublemaker. She must have forced Reina and the baby girl to go with her. Elizabeth is beyond herself when she woke up to discover her baby gone." Jack's voice! Feina felt heat warming her face. She knew her face must be really red. Reina put a hand on her shoulder and squeezed. It never failed to surprise Feina how quickly one simple touch from Reina could calm her down.

"I knew them immediately and called you. You've always mentioned taking in a beautiful greyish eyed Chinese girl." The old man rattled on, "It must be the birthing process that scared them. No young child should see something like that..." The voices were drowned away. Feina and Reina peaked over the counter and emerged from their hiding place. They ran out the front door knowing Jack would never come with help and into the dark silent night.

Chapter 3

May 2012

"Reiii-na," Feina used her sing-song voice. "Reina!" Reina snapped her eyes open and sat up straighter.

"What happened?" Her voice panicky and she felt cold sweat covering her skin despite the heat wave coming in through the window. They had already passed Winslow and were heading to the town on the outskirts, Charmundy. 'A charming town with charming goods,' a local had boasted and the old lady giggled when she gave them the directions. Yes, odd.

Feina gave her an inquisitive look, where one eyebrow raised up expertly. Yes, she definitely mastered the look that says "hmm...aren't you the one hiding something from me?" Reina released a soft sigh and looked at the road ahead. The long road was deserted with neither any life nor any forms of humanity in sight on either side. The day though was clear with white clouds dusting the blue sky.

"Reiiii~na." Reina turned to her friend, sister and only family in the world. She understood why Feina would want her to come along. They had never been apart for the last 12 years. Perhaps it was because today was the anniversary of their freedom. They never celebrated it but she knew Feina had never forgotten it like her.

"Just thinking about the past." Reina didn't need to see the look on Feina's face, it was always the same darkened, faraway look when Reina mentioned about the past. Instead, she focused on Feina's knuckles on the steering wheel, gripping so tightly that it turned white. Feina was never able to find "closure" people usually talks about. How do you find it? Reina wasn't even sure she was able to either. Their past was something they couldn't just talk about to their coworkers or friends and neither could really form deep friendships or relationships due to that. Their past was like a trauma that would pop up like ghosts in their dreams. It was a terrifying shadow that refused to disappear in the light. One positive side from their years of captivity was that they never turned to narcotics for relief. After seeing Nina inhaling bleach as a form of relief, was enough to turn them away. It was a cruel reminder for them.

Even at 19, six years later, they were afraid of being found by their foster parents. There were a couple of close calls but those disappeared when they travelled two states away. Reina had been reluctant about it. Living in the same state was the only chance to see Angel again. Angel. Reina couldn't help but get tears in her eyes whenever she thought about the baby girl, Angel. She was the one who named Angel, the baby who opened a doorway for their escape into freedom – but also, her only regret.

"I know that look..." Feina found her fingers into Reina's enclosed hand. "Angel will be fine. She is a lucky girl – one of us." Reina returned Feina's weak smile and Feina lifted her hand back to grip the steering wheel.

"You know it's alright to leave me..."

"Stop it." Chuckled Feina, shaking her head at her sister's nonsense again. "We've had this discussion before. I'm not leaving you. If you leave me, I'll turn back to the monster I've become."

"Don't call yourself a monster!" Reina scolded instinctively. It was a typical reaction these past two years since Feina was bitten. She didn't know what to do when Feina collapsed and didn't wake up for 3 days straight. She really wanted to drag Feina to the doctor but without insurance or ID, the police will be pounding at their door immediately. They were one of those runaways living in the fringes. Reina, with her intellect and the help of local libraries where she stayed reading the news and books, was able to become a tutor for neighbourhood kids and a waitress in a local Chinese family restaurant that didn't ask too many questions – not with the hourly rate they were paying her. On the other hand, Feina was a star bartender at a local pub. She knew she was pretty with curves and a rack that customers never failed to notice. Feina always had the street smarts kind of sense as opposed to Reina. Anyways, thank heavens Feina woke up but Reina nearly fainted when she came home after work to discover a wolf instead for a sister .

"If I leave you alone, you'll get eaten by that Chinese dumpling!" Feina's comment breached into Reina's thoughts.

"Don't call Sam that!" Reina couldn't help but giggle herself. Feina slid a knowing grin on her beautiful heart – shaped face. Reina continued. "He's just slightly overweight."

"Oh please!" cried Feina, "He's at least 400 pounds! I'm amazed he can still walk with those - "

"Feina!" Reina admonished. "It's not nice to talk about a person's weight. Everyone is different. Besides, don't try to side-track me, we were –"

"I know, I know. There's no way I'm leaving you. You didn't leave me when I turned into a mons-a wolf" She corrected hastily, "So why are you saying this now? They may be the same as who I am now but you're my family and that's that!"

Ah, Feina's famous stubborn tone used to settle everything according to her wishes. Reina gave a wry smile. They were complete opposites yet so alike. They were both stubborn when it came to sticking together.

"And don't think you can hide from me. Your breasts grew again right? What are you now, a C? I swear, if I didn't have my sharpened smell and physical strength, I would never be able to fend off those perverts!" Feina continued with an air of indifference like she dealt with perverts on a day-to-day basis. Reina's jaw dropped and stared at her sister.

Finally finding her voice, Reina could only blurt out. "You didn't tell me that!"

"There wasn't any need to tell you. We always go home together. Hahh...I really enjoyed my strength you know. Before, guys would try to feel me up and touch my crotch but with my strength I can send them flying!" Feina smirked, looking positively gleeful like she did it many times before.

"Feina! Don't show off your strength in front of others so easily! If they piece things together, you could get into heaps of trouble!" Reina started to feel that leaving was a good move now.

"Oh don't worry about that. They're all drunks and besides Bobbie had my back. He would always take care of those inside the bar." Bobbie, the nickname only Feina and Reina could ever use, was Bob Striker, the owner of the bar, a kind 45 years old man. He might be old but he had been in the military before and nobody would want to mess with him. He hired Feina when she was 15. Reina and Feina had been drifting from city to city at shelters and working random joints doing dishes. Bobbie saved Feina when a worker at the restaurant tried to rape her while Reina was knocked out cold. They awoke at Bob's condo and were given a place to stay. Bob never asked them any questions, respecting their privacy, not that he had never tried to. With his experience, he figured immediately what the look in their eyes meant that they would never divulge their past to him. So instead, on a whim as Feina called it, he rented a small apartment to them and they have been tenants and friends ever since.

Bobbie was reluctant to have them go but they promised to write to him and he relented somewhat. His ultimatum was something that brought a smile to her face even now. He had truly become a parent to them. Reina took the one photo they had with Bobbie and ran her finger across it. Bobbie was as close to a father figure to them as they allowed into their hearts. He was nothing like Jack. Bobbie might not be a socialiser, but he was kind and honest.

"Shit."

"What's wrong, Feina?" Reina looked up at her sister but a ear-splitting sound answered her instead.

Screechhhh, fffpmp. And the car stopped.

Smoke was rising in front of them. Quickly, they took their meager possessions from the back seat out before going near the car again. Feina raised the hood like a pro and tried to identify the problem. She could convince a car dealer she was a pro but Reina knew better. Reina peered behind Feina and sighed. Looks like it's the radiator – typical.

"We should go. I can already see the town." Reina gathered her bag. It was very light. Bobbie gave them his used military bags. Why the man bothered to keep them was still a mystery and he refused to have them wash it. He argued the smell would fend off any horny teenagers. Feina had to spray the bags many times because of her keen sense of smell.

Feina rolled her eyes and shook her head, sending her ponytail flicking from side to side. She had natural curly hair once she was able to grow it long. Her hair darkened over the years but with her recent transformation, it was now a brownish gold colour. One of the good things about this she remarked once, was the figure it gave her. She had more muscles and a slimmer waist. Smooth, firm thighs shown off by jeans cut-offs.

"What's wrong with it?" Feina put her ball cap on and her ponytail through the back loop.

"Radiator overheated. And not to mention the valves are leaking a bit." Feina raised an eyebrow above her sunglasses and tilted her head.

"Oh-kay." Feina dragged out and began walking.

"Well, you asked." Replied Reina, following after her sister. The car was bought for $100 plus Feina's fake phone number that would end up nowhere. Hey, a girl got to use any power she possesses. Not to mention the desperate puppy look the young car dealer wore like a mirror.

By the time they reached the welcome to Charmoundy sign both were sweating. Feina faired a little better by wearing a tank top that somehow managed to keep her C assets in and short-shorts. But the more conservative Reina, with her tight T-shirt and skinny jeans clung close to her figure a little too much for her liking. They'd worn these clothes for years now, never willing to spurge in case of emergencies.

"There's a cutlery over there." Feina used her arm to wipe across her forehead to get rid of the sweat but the sweat on her arm defeated the purpose. "Let's see if we can borrow the phone." Reina could only nod due to the exhaustion from the walk. In barely five minutes under the blazing summer sun, she was soaked under the armpits and back. One thing Reina envied Feina for was her stamina. The door swung open with force as Feina pushed ahead and went straight to the bar counter, swishing her hips in a dramatic way. Normally, Reina would have made a comment but in a new place, she took in her surroundings instead.

The little restaurant seemed to have been here for centuries, out of those old west films she once saw in the library. She must have stepped through a portal and gone back in time. That was the feeling she had gotten.

Everything was made of dark oak and pale yellow coloured walls. A couple of antlers and animal skins decorated the walls. Round tables lined in front of her with matching wooden stools. There was even a higher level. Would the whole place be able to get filled? And thank you, an electric fan.

The radio was broadcasting some western music and a few tables at the back were already filled. The men followed Feina's transgression to the counter and seemed to take in her measurements quickly before addressing Reina with their stare while the latter was still obliviously taking in the surroundings. Upon discovering a standing electric fan, she parked herself in front of it and drew her hair to the side so it didn't blow all over her.

Reina sighed in relief. Screechh. Reina looked up just in time to see all the men had rose from where they were sitting and took off quickly out the back door. Weird.

"Did you call them?" Reina asked as she approached her sister, a little uncomfortable with the silence and abrupt departure of the customers. Feina gave a slight shake. That little exit didn't get pass Feina as well. This town was weird. The bartender was either a snob or he had actually sniffed the air a bit before giving her the phone. She wouldn't tell Reina about it yet. It would only worry her sister.

"Excuse me. Is there a motel nearby?" Feina asked. She didn't even try to use the sweet tone she often employed. Somehow it seemed like the man would just ignore her anyway. She was right on the mark, the man stopped wiping the glass he was holding and jabbed his thumb to the right three times before resuming his cleaning.

"Thank you." Reina said as Feina only gave a harrumph and walked out the front entrance.

"What was with that man?" Feina stomped her foot on the ground and turned to the right. Of course she wasn't a narcissist but when Reina was with her, they tended to stand out and none could take their eyes off of them. The way this man ignored them seemed highly suspicious in her opinion. Again, this was not something she could share with her dear sister without being declared a silly child.

Reina followed after her briskly, finally gaining Feina's pace. "Weird, huh?"

"Seriously..." Feina whispered, "I felt a weird vibe when I got to the town. It was like there was electricity in the air or something. And did you see how the bartender sort of sniffed the air? The men too were staring. I know I have a dynamite body but I didn't feel the usual molestation. It was like they were looking right into me or through me...or I don't know...you know?" Feina stopped walking when she realized her sister was not beside her. "Reina?" A note of panic entered her voice for a second. Unconsciously, she sniffed the air and located her sister in less than a second. Her sweet-scent heightened by her sweat. She really needed to talk to Reina about it. It was like a sweet-pheromone or something, she just couldn't decide on how to say it. Reina would only laugh at the topic if she told her about it. She stalked back towards the alley between the meat shop and clothing store to discover her sister holding a kitten.

"Ohhhhh nooo." Feina backed away as her sister advanced, carrying the kitten towards her. "Let it go, Rei." Feina never had an affinity for animals and the feelings tended to be mutual. Animals didn't listen to her like they do with Reina. They swarmed around her like ants to honey. One time a dog was trying to hump her leg. It was funny but let's just say the doggy discovered who the alpha was. It seemed like the animals knew she changed somehow and either acted on their best behaviour around her or tried to attack and then run away from her.

"Oh shush," Reina whispered in her motherly mode, "He's all alone like us. If we don't take care of him, who will?" Reina stroked the kitten under the chin and it purred its approval, his tail swishing contently at the underside of Reina's breast. The hair on Feina's neck raised a bit, this feeling she would only admit to – at the back of her mind, as jealousy.

"No way." Feina replied stubbornly. "We're not here to take care of homeless animals remember? We need to find the Lucases." Feina continued to glare at the kitten. Since becoming a werewolf, it had been hard for her to rein in her protective and possessive nature. Bobbie had nearly thrown her out of the bar after she smacked a customer for flirting with Reina. Reina was banned from helping after that because of her trouble in self-regulation. From the snippets she heard with her superhuman hearing, her coworkers believed her to be a lesbian. Perhaps that was the reason for the increase of homosexual customers. Bobbie was quite put off by it as he now had to venture somewhat farther to get his dates but he got to admit the amazing view some of his new customers provided.

Reina ignored the comment and walked towards the motel. "Let's get you cleaned up." She cooed.

Too late. Feina thought and followed after her dear sister.

Chapter 4

That kitten is a devil's incarnate! It was too calm not to be. Feina managed to convince Reina to take a shower alone without the devil and now they were staring at each other. "Hey." The kitten never moved, it only turned to its side and licked its fur clean. Who knew devils are white and have blue eyes? "Don't think you can manipulate my sister, you hear me?" Feina thought she saw the kitten raise its eyebrows before giving her a big yawn, showing his teeth to her. Feina narrowed her eyes, she would love to show him her teeth. Before she could give a good lecture to this disrespectful rascal, Reina spoke behind her.

"What are you doing?" Reina regarded her sister carefully, a bemused smile etched on her face. The kitten instantly rose and gave a meow in greeting, swishing its tail happily. "Hi Arc."

"You named him already?" Bewildered, Feina's voice raised an octave like she always did when she was stressed. And a wolf living with a feline was definitely a stressor. It was a territorial thing since a long time ago. Cats and dogs never get along.

"Arctic Cloud."

"What?" Feina's face cracked and unable to stop herself, she went rolling on the floor laughing - that was absolutely lame. Angel should be thankful to have a normal name at least.

"That's why I shortened it to Arc." Reina pouted and then smiled down at Arc. "He has a beautiful coat don't you think?" Although an innocent statement, Feina couldn't help but scowl. "Don't tell me you're jealous of an animal? A kitten to boot."

"No way, José." Feina exclaimed defensively with a little too much force.

Reina only grinned, "Right." Clapping her palms together, Reina looked positively glowing, "Let's go see to dinner shall we?"

"Alright." Feina said begrudgingly. I swear I will get rid of that cat!

~~~

"What do you have against Arc? He's a kitten? Of course he bites and scratches things!" It had been a while since their morning was this chaotic – Feina chased Arc around the room while Reina tried to stop them. Everything in the room was overturned as Arc ran from her. The motel manager was nice enough to not throw them out immediately. Well, seeing as they were the only customers he had. It took them at least an hour or so to return the room back to the way it was. Well, as similar as it started.

They set off to find the Lucases after a late breakfast. They couldn't afford to dally too long. If the Lucases were not werewolves, then they needed to find some way to get back to the city. They certainly couldn't possibly survive in a town like this. Not that living in a town was bad but there was a saying about safety in numbers.

"Oh really?" replied Feina heatedly, "Then why not your clothes? I swear he's targeting me because he's trying to label you as his!"

Reina burst into a fit of giggles that didn't subside for at least a few minutes. "Did you hear yourself? Never mind that I am not a possession to be owned, he's a kitten. And your clothes? Well, you were having them lying around on the floor."

"Okay." Feina stopped to look her sister square in the eye. "But I've never heard a cat scratch holes in clothes."

"Well, considering we've never had a pet before, I'd say we don't really know." Reina giggled.

Feina rolled her eyes at her sister and they continued to walk. After at least a half hour, they could finally relax their hold a little having arrived at the large gate surrounding what seemed to be the Lucases' property. They could see the house at the far end, at least 2 km from the gate. The lawn leading up to the house was like barren desert, devoid of vegetation. Only a curvy gray gravel sidewalk led up to the house. A forest braced the back of it, all in all giving the house and its inhabitants the utmost privacy. The word 'house' devalued the expanse of the magnificent building. With its size, it should be called a mansion. However, they were too far to make a confident judgement as to whether its appearance matches one of those mansions they'd seen in magazines.

"How do we get in?" Reina asked as she looked for something like a doorbell.

"Only one way to go and that's up." Feina squatted down with her palms up, ready to boost her up.

"It says no trespassing." Reina shook her head, sending her straight ponytail left and right. Arc made a grab for her ponytail but it slipped through between his paws.

"They always have that on properties." Feina gave her sister a dismissive shrug.

"How about: beware of violent dogs?" Reina pointed with her chin towards the next sign. Her eyes fell onto the sign below in red letters, even bigger than the previous sign.

"That's the owner trying to be unique." Feina was amazed she kept her voice so calm. Although she got tense as she approached the place, she somehow also felt calm, like she belonged here. The forest looked extremely inviting and her wolf itched to run through it, feeling the leaves brush against her coat.

The email she got a month ago definitely noted this was the right place. This was definitely the closest Lycan pack to them. Hopefully they'd ignore the fact that she brought along a "human" with her. And a cat. Definitely, please overlook it. Feina snapped out of her reverie and motioned for her sister with her eyes darting from her palm and to the gate.

Reina heaved a familiar sigh, a defeated one that seemed to say there was nothing she could do. Seeing it as the only way out, she pushed her bags and Arc under the bars of the gate. Reina gave herself a little distance before running then hopped onto Feina's hands which lowered a bit before pushing her high into the air. Seems like her body hadn't forgotten the years living on the streets where they usually went over fences and into people's homes. They had never stolen anything, just borrowing without a fixed date of return. Reina arched her back over the pointy tips of the gate, flipped and landed both feet on the ground. By the time she turned around, Feina had already flung her bags over the gate and climbed over the fence. Reina picked up the bag's handle and lifted Arc with her other palm while Feina muscles relaxed and her nails returned to normal. The only way she could have gotten over that high gate was grabbing it with her sharp nails.

"Ready?" smiled Reina.

Feina breathed in and out before giving a brief nod. "As I'll ever be."

Chapter 5

"Fei-!" Cried Reina before Feina pushed her onto the ground and kicked the dog away.

"Stay down!" Feina yelled. In an instant two big dogs rushed out to attack them. Feina and Arc were ready but it wasn't enough time to warn Reina. Where were these animals hiding? Their enormous size definitely surpassed the typical size of grown dogs.

Before she could deliberate some more, they sprang at her, growling and barking their sharp fangs. Feina leapt from side to side by instinct and felt her muscles start to throb. Her heart accelerated from the fight. She could hear Arc hissing on four scrawny legs trying to protect Reina. Well, maybe she would let Arc stay with them for a while. Feina took a swipe at the dogs and they backed off a little but remained their offense position. "Don't move Reina!" Feina shouted. The dogs' ears swished towards the sound of Reina standing up slowly. These dogs didn't hurt them so they must have some capability for rational thoughts. No matter what, talking to them was worth a shot.

"Please stop." Reina begged, holding onto Arc. "We meant no harm. We need to see the people in the house." The dogs continued their growl before relinquishing a howl. "That doesn't sound good." Alright, maybe talking to raging dogs or wolves wasn't her brightest idea.

"Run!" Feina shouted and they ran once more.

"Oof." Reina thought her ribs might have broken. She scrambled to her feet but fell again, coughing. "Fei - " She turned towards the sound. A brownish-gold wolf was growling and barking. The dogs might have backed down a bit but resumed attacking. Three more black hounds entered the fight surrounding Feina. Reina and Arc must be small pray. It was clear that they were outnumbered and her last moment of thought was whether they would be shredded to pieces.

"Grrr." Goosebumps and shivers ran down Reina's back. Her skin ran cold sweat as she turned to face a huge grey wolf with bright green eyes. They stared at each other and everything in the background seemed to have faded away. The wolf with green eyes glowed and slowly approached, never taking its eyes away from her. She couldn't recollect whether her heart pounded faster or slower because she was lost in a trance, entering a lush green forest.

"Yelpp." Reina snapped her head towards the sound in time to see a black hound bit into Feina's hind leg. Kind of foolish to turn your back on a wolf, but now was not the time to debate that issue.

"Feina!" As Reina started to rise, a gust of wind blew past above her. All she knew was that in the next moment, the grey wolf had joined the flurry of activity in front of her eyes. The hounds lowered their head as if to submit to their inferiority before they bolted off towards the house. Reina rushed towards Feina who began to shift back into a human. No matter how many times she had seen it, it was still fascinating in a sense.

The body of the wolf seemed to elongate and the fur seem to grow back into the skin. A shimmering glow surrounded the transformation. Reina still had the sense to take out a dress (one that survived Arc's "acting out") and put it over Feina before fiercely hugging her. She only reclined back when Feina pat her back to let her know she was alright. Reina swiveled her head back and forth, but the green eyed wolf was nowhere to be seen. "Meow."

"I'm surprised you didn't run away." Laughed Feina. Arc answered with a meow that sounded to say "of course I won't! Who do you take me for?"

"Can you walk?" Reina gently lifted her battered looking sister up holding her arm over her shoulders and her hand around the back of her waist. Feina was still the taller one, being 5 feet 8 inches she positively loomed over Reina's 5 feet 6 inches. They left their bags on the deserted ground and headed towards the house. Two long pillars supported the house to the roof. The door was made of wood but was large enough like a church's door. A huge brass choker served as a doorbell. Before either one of them could grab the choker, the door opened by a person who nearly took their breath away.

Chapter 6

Reina felt her mouth slightly drop and her eyes widen but she quickly closed it and gulped down her nervousness. Feina stiffened too and she was the first one to recover, "Excuse me, my name is Feina Striker and this is my sister, Reina. I'm here to see Kay Lucas."

They had both decided to adopt Bobbie's last name. It gave them a sense of security to their father figure. And according to Feina, she had joked often how they are quite a striking family. Many times they had thought of throwing away their given names but it was a name that brought them together and ironically given them a sense of power, knowing that they had survive the hardest part of their lives.

"Please come in," gestured the man good-naturedly. He was what television shows would call the California type with his sandy blonde hair thrown in disarray by the wind. Reina doubted he styles his hair, rather his manner of dress and speech denoted him as a confident man, a natural born leader, who knew exactly what he is doing. Arc had hissed and jumped into the house the moment the door opened.

"Arc!" cried Reina but the man only smiled and replied, "He'll be fine." He led them down a spacious hall towards the end of the house and pushed open a set of glass doors into a cozy living room. The wall was surrounded by pale red wallpaper with gold leaf patterns. White crown molding around the ceiling and a well used fireplace with brick mantel. A wooden glass book case stood next to the fireplace and in front of it were two brown comfortable looking couches, a striped red and gold settee. A large window overlooking the backyard and beautiful floral curtains completed the look. It was one of the most beautiful rooms Reina had ever seen. She stood admiring it for a moment before Feina grunted her disapproval of having to wait. The man only stood still as he waited for them to sit down before sitting himself.

"Sorry for the late introductions. I'm Kay Lucas. I've been away with pack business and I left the dogs in charge of security around the house. Many of the pack would know you're here now that the hounds sounded the alarm. Bane already went to take care of it so don't worry." He paused, gave them both a sympathetic smile before he stood and opened one of the cupboards to get a first aid kit. Reina reached for the kit and murmured her thanks. She had given her fair share of first aid treatment to Feina's many street fights – not that she hadn't gotten into fights before, but even then she bandaged herself with scraps of clothes they could get from shelters across the city. Kay continued while Reina set on her task, his eyes focused on Feina but Reina could feel his gaze on her as well. He appeared to be the type that was aware of his surroundings.

"So that explains the welcome committee." Feina finally stated dryly. Kay nodded, not the least bit offended.

"To be honest, I only received a message from members of my pack that a werewolf arrived in town yesterday. Imagine my surprise. I thought you would arrive a few more days later. So I hurried back. I notified Bane as well and he was able to arrive before me."

Feina scoffed and before she could say anything impolite, Reina spoke, "Thank you for your help."

Kay chuckled knowingly. "You two might not believe me but you both caused quite a stir. You, being a single female werewolf, are already a danger itself but you were accompanied by another single human female." Feina and Reina gave him a puzzled look. Kay heaved a dramatic sigh, "Female werewolves are pretty hard to come by in this area, not to mention, virgins." Reina's mouth formed into an "O" and looked at Feina.

"What?" Feina asked perplexed.

"I didn't know you are a..." Reina began before she stopped. They should not discuss this in front of a man they just met 10 minutes ago.

"You thought I was experienced?" cried Feina, "What gave you that idea?" Reina blushed and shushed her sister.

"You were always talking about it, so I thought you were...you know."

"It's all just talk! I'm surrounded by drunken old man every day. If I don't dish it back to them, I'll get picked on." Feina replied matter-of-factly.

"Ah-kmm." Kay coughed in his throat. Their gaze returned back to him. "So now you know what happened. I take it you're here to join the pack? It would be a smart choice, considering a lone wolf would be hard to survive in the city. Wolves are pack animals, without a pack they would lose their human consciousness in the long run. Unregistered wolves are usually hunted for the sake of protecting the Lycan community."

"That's why I'm here. One of my customers gave me a card with a website link. I thought it was a joke but here I am. There is one thing that I hope you can promise me though before I join the pack." Feina continued on when she saw Kay's nod, "I want my sister to live with me."

~~~

"I can't allow that," replied Kay, almost immediately. He turned to look at Reina, "I would have had you killed to protect our secret, but seeing that you are sisters, there's really nothing I can do about it. One of our laws is not to kill humans."

"Then thank you for your time," Feina responded, her tone laced with venom. She stood up quickly, her hand on Reina's arm and dragged her towards the door limping. Before anyone could speak the door burst open.

"Is it true a female is joining the pack?!" cried a tall and lanky brown haired teenager. He looked about the same age as Reina and Feina. Well, actually all of them appeared to be around 20 years old.

A dark haired man whistled. He had a chiseled jaw, high cheek bones and a goatee. His dark eyes pierced at them and the corners of his mouth slowly turned up, bringing up his mouth ring. "Nice."

Reina assessed the two late comers and couldn't help but admit that these two were also poster gorgeous. She'd seen one of those firemen calendars in Shoppers before and these two won hands down. She coughed to hide her errant thoughts. The effect of being surrounded by drunks and flirts had made her quite immune to pure masculine men.

Feina snorted and gave one of her glares reserved for disgusting man. "Get out of my way." Each word precisely pronounced.

"Feisty." Smirked brown hair, "Tuson at your service and this is Wis, a.k.a. one night stand." He was wearing a polo shirt and dark blue jeans that matched his carefree tone.

"No need to be jealous there little boy." Wis smirked, his eyes still eyeing his prey. His black shirt and blue jeans clung to his body a little too well.

"And behind them are Bane, my beta, and my son, Cain." Kay finished. Wis and Tuson stepped aside to allow the two newcomers to enter. Bane was at least 6 feet with dark greyish hair. A little shorter than Wis but he also possessed high cheek bones and a straight, slightly croaked nose. He truly was someone tall, dark and handsome but one distinctive feature was the pair of greenish eyes. His shirt opened, revealing his slightly hairy chess. Reina felt her heart skip a beat. She suddenly had the urge to run her hands through it. She gave herself a little shake and looked down to Cain. He was about 8 or 9 years old. His height reached about her waist. There was no mistaking it, with the same sandy blond hair and blue eyes; he resembled his father to a fault. Add to that, Cain was holding onto a squirming Arc.

"Thank you for getting Arc for me," Reina knelt in front of Cain and gave him her warmest smile. Cain blushed red and half thrust Arc into her arms before running behind his father and only poking his head out. Kay chuckled and ruffled his son's hair. "Why are you being so shy now?"

Feina gave a huff. "Nice to meet you all but we still have a long road-trip back to the city."

"I thought you're staying!" cried Tuson, looking at Feina and then his alpha. "What's wrong?"

Kay gave Tuson a look. This one is still so young. "Feina would like us to take in her sister as well but because she is human, I believe it'll be better for her to remain in her human world."

"Oh, but don't-"

"Stop it Tuson." Kay could always count on Wis to control Tuson. The two having arrived from the same community worked better as a team.

Bane remained expressionless glancing subtlety towards Reina.

Feina gave a harrumph and glared at Kay, "She's the only family I have. We live for each other. If you separate us, neither will survive. You might as well kill us!" The room was silent for a while before Kay broke it with his long sigh. He gave the ridge of his nose a slight pinch before addressing his audience, "Feina, Reina, please stay the night. I would like to get the pack's opinion regarding this matter. It may seem like a small decision but there might be a huge impact. We'll let you know the decision in the morning. Please stay at the guest rooms upstairs." Feina narrowed her eyes as if assessing the situation before nodding. The man was smooth but she'd seen his eyes. They were filled with sincerity. Her gut told her to trust him and it never failed her before. Living on the streets taught her many people skills.

"Alright. You!" Feina barked to Tuson, "Show us the way!"

"Yes ma'am!" Tuson trailed happily after her sister. He was completely smitten. Reina shook her head at her sister and followed her quickly out the door, resisting every fiber in her body to glance at the man with green eyes bracing himself against the wall with his arms crossed across his wide chest.

Chapter 7

"What do you think, Bane?" asked Kay as he slumped down onto the sofa. Bane sat across from his brother and leaned back with his arm across the back of the sofa.

"Now's not the time to act cool." Sighed his brother.

"And sighing only proves you're getting old brother." Bane smirked. It was their usual banter. Kay reprimanding Bane's aloofness and Bane teasing their 30 years age difference.

"She should stay," Wis said, breaking the silence. "Right? Big man?" Cain nodded his head in approval.

"She smells nice." Cain focused his eyes towards the floor. All three man laughed, laughter rumbling deep from their chest. Kay rumbled his son's hair again for a minute before Cain escaped and ran out the door.

"So, besides the fact that she smells nice," Kay continued turning towards his beta and best friend, "She might be a problem."

"Such as?" questioned Wis, his eyebrow raised.

Kay raised one of his own before explaining the obvious, "She's a human that can't protect herself in a pack of wolves. Anyway, what can she do here? She should interact with other humans. Get married and have children."

Bane relaxed his jaw and fist. He was struck with sudden tension when Kay mentioned marriage. The thought completely took over his rationality for a second. It took no less than half his power to reign in his beast. His wolf was about to jump out.

"Bane." Wis gave him a knowing smile and clapped his back before leaving.

"Your thoughts?" Asked his brother.

Should he let her stay? His wolf howled with approval but Bane squashed the feeling. "No."

~~~

"Ahhh," cried Feina happily. "This feels nice." It has been a month since they could take a bath. To lower their bills, they decided to do quick showers and two meals a day. A bath is usually a luxury once a month.

"They have a nice tub," replied Reina absently. Arc, never one to dwell in water for too long was already out, dried and napping on the guest bed. They both declined another guest room, opting to share one instead.

"Reina," Feina held her sister's hand and vowed. "I'll never leave you."

"But you belong here, Feina." She held her hand up to stop Feina from interrupting, "I know you've been curious about who you've become. I only wished for what's best for you. If this is something you want then you shouldn't let me get in your way."

"Rei! Don't ever say that! If I need to sacrifice you for curiosity, then I'm no better than those scumbags downstairs or petty thieves."

"Fei..."

"No. You listen to me," Feina firmly cupped her hands on either side of her sister's cheeks, "We stay together or we leave together."

~~~

Next morning, Reina awoke extremely early. She hardly slept from all the excitement last afternoon. She decided to see if the Lucases have any food in their kitchen. Hopefully they wouldn't mind losing a few slices of bread or something. Reina entered to see Cain standing tiptoe on a chair reaching for a cup in one of the glass cupboards. Reina rushed behind Cain in the nick of time before the chair tilted backwards.

"Are you alright, Cain?" asked Reina gently, pushing his hair back. Cain only nodded and stared at her with puppy eyes. Reina smiled. "Good morning, handsome. What are you up to?"

Cain blushed crimson, "I was thirsty."

"And hungry I presume?" chuckled Reina upon hearing Cain's stomach growling. "What would you like to eat?" Cain's eyes sparkled with obvious happiness.

"You can cook?" cried Cain in astonishment.

"Not a professional chef for sure but I worked in restaurants often so I picked up a few things." Reina smiled with amusement and Cain seemed to take the information in and deciding on the important breakfast menu.

"Pancakes." Cain nodded. "Can you make pancakes?"

"Anything for you," Reina replied tapping her finger on Cain's perky nose. Cain grinned back. "Now, your job is to be my assistant. You know this kitchen better than I do so help me find the materials quickly 'cause I'm famish too."

It took at least 30 minutes to prepare their breakfast. Feina walked in halfway with Arc and watched their proceedings. Reina set Feina to toast the bread and cutting fruits for their fruit salad while she stood behind Cain, who was standing on a stool, to pour the pancake batter onto the pan and flipping them. They must have made at least 20 pancakes when the men strolled in, having caught the appetizing smell.

"Good morning." Smiled Reina and Cain where Feina only chimed in a murmur. "Sorry I used your kitchen without your permission. Here Cain, get these to the others before they get cold." Cain nodded and jumped off the stool with the pancakes.

"Toast too." Yawned Feina handing over another plate to Cain who grabbed it with his other hand and raced towards the long oak rectangular table where his dad and uncles were sitting.

"Mmm..." Tuson moaned, "This is great, what's in it?"

"Blueber-is," Cain swallowed before continuing, "Reina taught me a secret to make it all fluffy and extra soft."

"These are great!" Wis seconded, "The toast too."

"Pfft," Feina rolled her eyes as she finished chopping the fruit pieces and put them into the bowl. Watching Feina cook had a kind of danger itself. Her aggressive chopping and stiff posture could be seen as frightening.

"Done?" Reina turned and added in some syrup before mixing the fruits with a spoon. "Take it to the table and eat. I'll have more pancakes soon." In less than 8 minutes, she had another large stack of pancakes done. Bane appeared suddenly behind her and almost made her drop them. He held her straight with his muscled arm around her small thin waist. His eyes bored into hers briefly before taking the pancakes from her hand and heading towards the table. It happened so briefly that she thought she had imagined it. Reina sat down hesitantly beside Feina and started her breakfast. She smiled when she heard their groan of pleasure.

"This is really delicious." Kay commented, "Do you cook for your family?"

"Yes," replied Reina, "It's less costly and I really enjoy seeing the happy looks on other people's faces when they eat my cooking."

"So about your decision-" Feina began but was interrupted by Cain. He turned to his father and bounced up and down happily, "Let her stay dad! Let her stay!"

Kay glanced at his brother in amusement, where his pals tried to remain expressionless. "Well...that depends...can Reina here make an apple pie?" Bane felt his wolf's ears perked up.

The others looked at Reina intently while Reina and Feina remained puzzled. Lastly, Feina decided to respond for her sister, "Of course! She makes one mean delicious apple pie. The best I've ever had. Two types of apples melted on your tongue. The crust fluffy and soft..." Feina and Cain were already staring off into space with a wide smile on their faces.

And so Reina's stay became official. Who knew apple pies are the ticket to enter a wolves' den?

Chapter 8

3 months later

"Arc," called Reina, holding a pan of scrambled eggs and a bowl on the other hand. "Go get Feina and Cain." The days flew by in a whirl. Reina had unanimously given the role as caretaker of Lucas House. Not that it was a challenge for her. It even gave her time to finally study and earn high school credits online. She'd be able to get her diploma soon. Kay was also able to get her and Feina IDs and driver licenses, fake certificates and so forth using his various connections. It was as if they were given another chance to be reborn.

Feina went out with Wis, Tuson and Kay everyday to train and learn about the pack. Reina only knew the essentials such as rules she can count on for her safety. Other pack members' wives would sometimes come to visit her. They shared their recipes and she, her knowledge of the outside world and soap, her source of income. It became a business idea when one of the wife, Loraine, asked to buy her soaps.

Like a medieval housewife and living in poverty, Reina had always made her own soap from any materials she could scrounge. Her experience became more profound after coming to Lucas House. The forest contained abundant wild plants and a garden of apple trees. Guess it was obvious seeing how she got to stay because of apple pies. She spent the whole of June making apple jams and soaps to sell to the locals. The locals in turn sold her products to the cities. Now she has her own website. It was amazing how life made such a turn in just a few months.

"Mmm.....it smells so good...if I haven't been working out each day I would look like 3 months pregnant." Feina strolled in scratching her tummy. She still dresses promiscuously. Her short cotton pants rises up indecently and wearing her white clingy tank top. Reina could already imagine Tuson's reaction when he sees her. Feina never encouraged his affections but didn't stop it either. "Why should I change my life around because of him?" She had declared boldly. Reina shook her head and tsked. Sometimes her sister was just...sigh.

"You said you were going to help me with breakfast today," Reina grinned to show she wasn't the least bit angry.

"Reina!" cried Cain coming in and attaching himself on Reina's waist. "Feina was hogging the bathroom again!"

"Ha," Feina scoffed, "The early bird gets the worms. And losers wip-rs" Her speech muffled by food. Reina rolled her eyes. Everyone was like this as well – Cain and Feina fighting over the bathroom. Feina took the room across from hers which didn't have an adjoining bathroom. Although Reina had told her multiple times to use the bathroom in her room, Feina still tried to agitate the shared bathroom Cain also uses. The men were lucky to live on the other side of the house. Reina though didn't enjoy going over there to clean each week. Only a few tended to have any housekeeping skills and there were smells she didn't want to know the name of.

"Eat before it gets cold." Reina kissed Cain softly on the head and patted him to let her go. "Where are the others?"

"They'll be here," Cain gobbled his food quickly, knowing this would be his last chance before the others arrive. "The smell will reach them soon enough." Not a minute later the man strolled in and true to her predictions, Tuson just as quickly ran out the door. Reina giggled a bit before scooping some of the breakfast onto Tuson's plate. He'd need it.

"He has a boner doesn't he?" smirked Feina licking her fingers. Reina whacked her sister with the ladle.

"Feina! Language!" Reina reproved, hands on her hips. "This isn't a conversation one should have in front of Cain or during breakfast time." Cain was already asking his father who was chuckling along with Wis.

"And where is..." She stopped in midsentence when a green eyed grey wolf pounded in and shifted. Reina quickly sat down, her back facing Bane. He seemed to like taking his morning run in wolf form lately, always shifting in front of her and the others. She was shocked to the core and her body hummed every time but she was adamant about seeming indifferent.

Bane sat down in his clothes and began eating while the others acted as if nothing was strange. Reina wanted to lecture him about it but her pride wouldn't let the matter get to her.

"So the meeting this Saturday," Kay reclined back against the chair and rubbing his full tummy. "You don't have to go all out Reina, the men will set up the grill and we'll take care of it." Reina gave him his warmest smile. After the initial awkwardness, they became great friends, especially when Cain practically worshiped anything that Reina says and does. It was hard to hate the person who makes you food.

"I already drew a plan on where tables and things will go. I also made a list of food we'll need. All I need to make are apple pies." Cain's made a fist in the air and hooted.

"We'll get the food," said Feina, "Com'on Wis, I need a ride and some strong muscles." Feina placed the dishes in the sink and grabbed the list from the refrigerator, where she knew Reina always places.

Wis chuckled, "Don't let Tuson hear that, he'll cry." Wis and Feina became great sparring partners but their relationship could never be anymore than brothers. Feina was outgoing like Tuson, perhaps that's why they got along as brothers.

Reina stood to collect the dishes all the while avoided making eye contact with Bane. He was still eating slowly. His elbow poised on the table, holding his fork midway from his mouth, staring blazingly at her. Reina could feel his gaze. She should have been uncomfortable but surprisingly she wasn't. Instead, she was flattered by this handsome man's gaze but she would be damned to fall for handsome man. She wasn't being fair to him, she knew him well enough after these two months. He could take jokes and dish it right back while respecting the receiver. He also adored children, seeing how they flocked to him. His movement was sleek and silent. Many wives in the pack and their daughters salivate after the men in Lucas House. It was surprising they didn't get into any discrepancies with the women, well except one – Rebecca Turner, a true tragic villain; blonde, beautiful but possessed a devil personality. She was a lone wolf that joined the pack not long ago. She was popular among the man but her possessiveness soon showed others what she truly was. Reina and Feina haven't been at the house for more than the first month, when Rebecca challenged Feina to a death match only to be literally whipped in the ass by her sister. Sometime later, she turned her anger and jealousy to Reina who was with Cain at the time. Kay and Bane almost went over the edge with anger. Rebecca was thrown out of the pack immediately. Reina had seen this too many times before at Striker Bar. Women were over their heads in infatuation with some guy and went overboard.

"Here, I'll get that." Reina jumped at the sound of the voice behind her, nearly dropping the plates she was holding. Without her realizing it, everyone had departed from the kitchen. All she felt was the warmth from Bane's body. His masculine scent mixed with early dew grass in the morning was wafting towards her, overriding her senses. She breathed in trying to calm herself, which was a mistake. "Thank you." She whispered while turning her head but stopped just in time. She slowly dared her eyes to look up into his green eyes. They appeared to be in a turbulent state like gusty wind blowing on a grass field. She felt her eyelids droop under his hypnotic gaze.

~~~

Bane almost groaned. It was foolish, he knew, to dwell in such a close proximity to her but she smelled really good. Crap. He sounded like a pervert now. He could get off of that scent. Why does she smell so good? He knew she doesn't wear perfume. She hand-made soaps. Who does that? It was laughable but he couldn't when he was so attracted to her flowery scent. It must be her long hours of toiling in the garden. Her skin still remained soft and light though. He had seen her from the forest when she was gathering flower petals in a white button down shirt. He almost pushed her to the ground when she asked if there are used clothes they didn't need so she could wear it to clean around the house. Even though his shirt was too big for her, it was still tantalizing. She was innocent and conservative. A deadly combination only the subject of desire herself seemed to be unaware. Jeeze, her cleavage...she must be at least a C cup...and on such a tiny waist to boot, he could always see a generous amount peak out whenever she bent down to - No. It was best not to think about it. The wolf inside him whined. Down boy. He growled at him for treating him like a pet and paced back and forth, swishing his tail in agitation. Bane prided himself on his self control. He was never one of those horny pubescent teenagers. Perhaps that was why he's acting like this now because he skipped that stage. He could see that he wasn't the only one affected. Her grey eyes have flecks of gold in them, shining at him brightly. Her full luscious red lips beckoning him to kiss them, make love to them. And god...she opened her gorgeous mouth to breath him in. He could hear her heart beating faster, or was it his heart? It didn't matter whose. He could see her tongue. The small pink tip of her tongue darted out to touch her front teeth before she brought her teeth out and chewed her bottom lip. He felt his head dip lower, and lower...

"Meow!!!" Bane and Reina flew apart. Reina bumped into the table, her hand above her chest. A sharp sting on his chest made him realize Arc had attached himself there. Refusing to move, hissing his disapproval.

"What's going on?" asked Cain innocently. His eyes darted from Reina who began gathering dishes to Bane who was gruffly pulling Arc away from him. "What did you do to Arc, Bane? I've never seen him like that before."

Bane grunted and held the cat to Cain who took the fur ball into his arms and hugging it. No wonder Feina called the cat a devil for the first few months. When they asked her why, she only smirked and shot him a look before saying, "You'll see. Try not to let little kitty best you." Bane held his head up high and tried to walk away with dignity, hopefully he wouldn't meet anyone along the way to the showers.

Chapter 9

Saturday

"Cain honey, take the paper plates out and set the table."

"Okay!" Cain rushed out with a stack of plates nearly reaching to the top of his head. There was a lot of chattering around the kitchen. The women all brought in their famous dishes to share, except for Feina who preferred to do physical labour over interacting with the women. Reina wasn't worried. She knew Tuson would be following her around as always and Wis would be there trying to keep them both out of trouble.

"I don't know how you do it," said Jenna, one of the wives, "I have three children but none of them listen to me like Cain does with you. What's your secret?" The other wives giggled and second Jenna, their eyes focused on Reina.

"I believe it's not much of a secret. Cain's just waiting for the apple pie," Reina replied and then on a more serious note, "Cain is a special kid."

Luna nodded and sighed. She looked just like her sister, Jenna. Their brown curly hair reached just above their waist but one had blue eyes and the other hazel. "Ever since, Cain's mother died, Kay tried to fill in the role. You know how we mate for life. Kay might have gone rogue if not for his brother and friends holding him. We don't know how Kay did it, might be the responsibility, but he pulled himself out of it one day. Occasionally, we would pitch in with the cooking and cleaning but it wasn't the same. You're a godsend you know that? You're just the woman they need in their lives. But it's only a matter of time before you and Bane got hitched and they'll be back where they are." Clang. Reina hit one of the dishes she was washing and stared at the woman.

"You should close your mouth before you catch them flies, hon," replied Teresa, Wis's sister and engaged with another tribe's were. Reina closed her mouth and bit her lower lip as she resumed her washing but not really focusing. The others giggled as they bustled about. "Looks like you scared the poor girl!" one of them shouted.

"You didn't think it was a secret right?" Jenna raised her eyebrows up and down. She was stirring the creamy mushroom and chicken soup. The delicious aroma penetrated the whole room.

"I – I don't know what you're saying..." The cliché statement stammered out and Luna interrupted her.

"No use hiding it, Reina. Not when Bane lusts after you and practically follows you wherever you go. I can't believe the man has such good self-control. I thought after 3 months he would have lost it by now." Luna said conversationally and gesturing with her knife, Reina was half wary and half surprised. She knew Bane was brazen when they were alone but if these three women knew, everyone knew.

"I mean, my husband is always hounding me like a wolf in heat." Everybody giggled except for Reina. Please! If I don't talk to my sister about this, I certainly won't with these women!

"I know right?" Jenna laughed. "Seriously, I think I'll have cub number four before anything happens between you two. You should get it on, sweetie." Reina blushed and tried to deny it.

"At least get engaged," chimed in Teresa, "On second thought that might not work so well. I mean Darien has become so impatient that he is groping me with every chance he got. We were practically naked last night and would have done it if not for my brother walking in on us." The wives burst out laughing, drawing others attention. "I swear! Wis did it on purpose. He's a good guardian but a sadist you know. A strange combination if you ask me."

Reina's reprise came when the guests, the Leon Pack, arrived. They travelled from a small town in Flagstaff. Leon, the leader and a dozen from his pack were invited to discuss their peace treaty and address any changes in the area. It was an annual meeting on this day. Sometimes there would be more events to get different packs to intermingle to avoid marrying into the same bloodline. Apparently, they couldn't marry into the same bloodline just like humans.

~~~

Leon brought with him his chief advisors and a couple of marriageable men. If the rumours he heard about the famous Feina, she would be quite the catch. He sniffed the sweet delicious aroma in the air. The female weres of Lucas pack outdone themselves this time. He knew the others were practically drooling with hunger. They did skip lunch in order to arrive on time after all. "Hey! You comin' in?" Leon looked up to see a blonde woman dangling her legs out of the window. His fellow team whistled their approval. She gave a confident grin and rolled back inside. He couldn't hear a thud so she obviously didn't fall. This was just getting interesting.

Kay motioned them to the backyard. His pack members were already there serving food. He motioned his head to the table on his right to Leon. They had an amiable friendship supported by their same ideals for a democratic leadership. A little untraditional in the eyes of the elders but they were able to live in harmony so there wasn't much problems yet. "How's everything? I see you've brought some of your best chivalry?"

"I heard there's a feisty new female. You don't expect me to hesitate to steal her away to my pack right? All's fair in love and war, they say." Both men gave the other a silent toast. They were silent for a while, observing the proceedings. The apple trees with their leaves remaining were decorated with Christmas lights, illuminating the yard. There were lanterns along the fence. It gave a peaceful feeling with the setting sun behind it. Blankets were placed under trees because there weren't enough tables and chairs to go around but that certainly didn't matter.

"What, everyone is eating already?" Leon's ears swiveled at the familiar voice. It was the blonde. She was wearing a clingy blue dress with spaghetti straps. The hem moved up and swayed as she walked. Her blue eyes shone with mirth and walked confidently towards their table. She's a true minx. "So this must be the famous leader, Leon?" If Leon didn't know better, he would have thought she was trying to flirt with him, but there was something in her tone that implied otherwise. She tilted her chin and her lip turned up a little at the corner. Her eyes were merry but not laughing. Did he offend her?

"Yes. And you must be the famous Feina Striker?" He stood, holding his hand up for a shake. Feina kept his eye contact and gave his hand a hard pat.

"Feina..." Kay warned, slowly rising from his seat. It wouldn't bode well to give others the impression that their packs are having a falling out.

"Relax, Kay." Feina strutted gracefully towards Wis and Tuson, "I just don't appreciate people trying to pawn me off or something. I can catch my own man." She gave a dismissive wave over her head.

"Seems like she hasn't been house-broken yet." Leon kept his glance on the back of the blonde's head. His hands tingled from their brief touch.

"Lucas Pack doesn't force our members to conform to an ideal. As long as rules are followed and we are able to live peacefully, that's all that matters."

"Cheers."

"Here's the apple pie!" shouted Cain. Everyone hooted and laughed before rushing towards it.

"What's up with your men?" cried Leon in disbelief, "Judging by that scene, I'd say your men have never eaten apple pies before."

Kay chuckled, "They have but they never get tired of teasing a certain stubborn wolf." He motioned his head to his left. Bane, Leon remembered, Kay's brother was standing still with his arm crossed in front of his chest and he could see his jaw was clenched turning his lips into a thin line. He was glaring at his fellow men.

"Ho! That's some joke your men is playing. Aren't they afraid of death?" Leon chuckled. Bane was rumoured to be ruthless in a battle. Thank heavens, he had a strong sense of ethics and morals or he might have become an assassin or something.

"Apparently not enough to stop them." Kay shot back with a grin.

"She must be one amazing woman."

Kay slid a glance towards Leon. Leon was a worthy leader being so intuitive. It would be great if Feina went with him to become his alpha female. She might have problems convincing the other pack members because of her half blood but she had the strength and charisma to govern. It saddened him to let her go. He had seen his own pack weakened after the lost of his wife but having Reina here somehow made things better, if only Bane would stop being so stubborn.

"Whoa...these are just pies, you know?" Feina laughed. For some reason, Leon's heart felt a tug towards the sound-like music. Meow. What? Is that a cat?

Leon saw his men stop eating and staring at the vision walking through the open doorway, the light spilling behind her made her seem to glow. Long eye lashes fell onto her cheek as she gently rubbed her foot against the white feline's side. She looked exotic and when she spoke, she had a calm and soothing voice, "Here's another pie." Feina stood beside her. They were like complete opposites but it felt right. Bane was already by her side. Not too close, but close enough that no one dares to stand between them. The exotic maiden, however, seemed to be ignoring him but if he didn't see her trying to sneak glances under her eyelids, he would have believed it.

"What a stubborn couple."

Chapter 10

"Quick! Come quickly Reina," Cain cried, "Feina's fighting with Leon!" Reina dropped her laundry and rushed out of the basement following Cain. Members of the pack surrounding the fight moved aside to include them. They were observing the match with great enthusiasm. The Leon pack rooted their leader on. Feina was wearing her classic morning wear. Wis was holding off Tuson whereas Kay and Bane were expressionless with their arms crossed, as if this was a completely natural occurrence.

Bane glanced at her briefly as if reassuring her everything would be alright. Reina turned back when she heard a whine. Feina tried to kick at Leon's calf but he jumped away in time. He dodged each of Feina's attack, her swirling kick and hooked punches, with ease. Feina, on the other hand, was getting tired and more riled up than ever. It had been a long time since Feina was in such a state. Bobby had taught her his military skills because she kept getting into fights. Bobby really held an important position in their hearts, especially to Feina. She trained herself to fight for survival but also because of the sense of guilt. Reina knew that Feina felt responsible she couldn't protect her and Angel. They were starving. If they didn't give up Angel, she might have died. A baby definitely needed to be brought up in a healthy environment.

"Ohhhh!" The crowd roared. Reina snapped her eyes back up to see Feina faltering. Her left hand was on her knees and she used the back of her right hand to rub the blood away. She glared at Leon, her eyes turning yellow.

Reina hummed. Feina turned her gaze briefly towards hers. After all these years, the signal became instinctive. It was a signal they used to alert the other if there is something wrong. Later on it was perfected into a stealing strategy. Each hum in a different key symbolized a different move - right, left, wait, go, and so on. Reina smiled, Feina seemed to have excellent hearing over all the ruckus. Feina smirked and stood up confidently. She was ready.

Hmmmm (Left) ...hmmm (low)..hmhmhm (hit, hit, hit)...Hmmmm (go, hit)...Hmm (right)..hmm(up) hmm(low)hm(hit)hm(hit)-hm (forward)-hm (forward).

Leon used his arm to shield off from Feina's swirling kick. He couldn't understand her tactic, he was sure he had her there but she seemed to suddenly change. It was as if she knew his movements. He couldn't land a single hit on her. Not that he tried to before but now he did. It was a little appalling.

"Stop." Kay's voice silenced the whole group. He gave them his gracious smile, "I believe everyone must be hungry. Reina?"

"Yes. Lunch should be ready by now. I'll go set it up. Cain?" Reina jogged back towards the house, her ponytail swinging side to side as Cain followed right at her heels. Wis dragged the struggling Tuson inside to help. Others began to drift back to their stations. Kay and Bane directed those who were staying for lunch to tables and chairs.

Feina and Leon shook each other's hand. "That was a close one."

"Quite." They stood looking at each other. Leon could feel it, the attraction between them, it was electrifying. His thumb rubbed the blood off Feina's lips. Feina's tongue licked the spot he touched when he brought his thumb to his tongue and licked her blood. His wolf howled inside him. Delicious.

~~~

"That was quite a performance this afternoon," Kay began. Him, Reina, Feina, Bane, Wis, Tuson and Leon were sitting by the fireplace in front of the LCD television. The news was still going on but everybody had long since abandoned it to play monopoly. It was 1 A.M. so Cain and Arc had already retired.

"Beautiful," Tuson threw darts with his eyes but Leon ignored it except for Feina.

"Stop it, Tuson. You need to calm down." Feina rolled the dice and her marker landed on Cain's property, "pay 500" but with four houses, it will be $2000. "Crap! Reina! You always have the devil's good luck." That was true, immediately after Reina took over Cain's place; she had bought property and built houses. She would never land on any of their properties. How was that even possible?

"You can retire now and live in your many mansions." Joked Wis. He too was about to be in debt. Reina's eyes glittered with amusement. Bane was laid back against the couch, his palm holding his head up. The corner of his lips turned up a little, trying hard to hide his grin.

"Argh!" cried Feina, "Can I pay you later?" She gave her sister a pout and batted her eyelashes. Leon thought it was adorable.

"Hmm...let me see," Reina held a finger to her cheek as if pondering, "I'll have to charge you interest." Everyone laughed and decided to stop. It was only a matter of time they lost anyway.

"When did you two learn to do that?" Kay said softly, against the rustling fire in the background. Feina had her head against her sister's shoulders staring off into a daze. They knew that Kay was curious about how Reina used sound to direct her fight with Leon.

"It's a little complicated," Reina whispered. Kay and the others never questioned them about their childhood. Reina and Feina had only shared their late teenage years, working under a nice bartender, Bob Striker. Their behaviour seemed to be a good indication of their honest character. Reina closed her eyes, and soon everything went black.

~~~

Bane was sitting on the sofa with Reina's head on his lap, sleeping so peacefully. Kay had retired and Leon carried the sleeping Feina back to her room. Meanwhile, Tuson went for a late run in the woods with Wis because he lost on rock paper scissors. Bane snorted. The kid really had no luck. The sooner he realized it, the better it was for him. He only hoped that Tuson wouldn't have an emotional breakdown when Feina married Leon. Judging by the chemistry between the two and the fact that he hadn't heard Leon come out, the matter would be settled really soon.

"Mm..."

Bane regarded the sleeping form on his lap. She curled up like a kitten on the sofa. He gently pulled the hair tie restricting her glossy and smooth black hair. Strands of soft silky hair brushed against his wrist. He rested his palm on her neck. Her skin was warm and soft. Just the thought of her skin touching his had sent desire straight to his groin. He had never had such a hard time keeping his libido in. Having lived for 75 years, he was past the age of taking matters into his own hands and he doubted he could get it up for any other women now after meeting her. He was never the type to view other women as a replacement for the one he wanted, he wasn't raised that way. He also wasn't brought up to have a human mate. It was just lust. Just...lust.

Chapter 11

2 months later

Since that night, Leon has been courting Feina. It was a long distance relationship but Leon made sure to frequently drop by. Reina was happy for Feina but that didn't mean she wanted the whole 3 hours review of Leon's magnificent body and another 2 hours of his 5 star performance. That didn't stop Feina though. She followed Reina that day and everyone who could escape, did. Reina fully envied being a werewolf that day.

By the end of the day, she was beyond frustrated. She was already confused having woken up to find herself in Bane's lap. His 5 o'clock shadow made him look gruff and mischievous, except for the "approach and I'll kill you" glare. Before she could think of a counterattack, he had rose and left. She sat rooted to the spot until Feina skipped in not long after. She announced that she lost her virginity and decided to give her the blow by blow on how sex was oh-so magical and pleasurable. By the end of the day, she couldn't look at Leon, especially below his belt, and think properly. It was traumatizing to say the least, though because of this she wouldn't have to analyze Bane's behaviour. However, since then Bane and her "relationship," which she didn't know if she could even call it that, had become strained and awkward. He made himself scarce around her. From the gossips Jenna and Luna brought, Bane was seen with dozens and dozens of women. Teresa couldn't get anything out of Wis, only that "it is a man's problem." Teresa had things to say about that, not that she would repeat it in front of the men. Feina was annoyed but rarely displayed her displeasure. In her mind, if Bane didn't have the guts to approach Reina, he didn't deserve her but that didn't mean they weren't teammates.

It was a wonderfully cool November morning, when the mail arrived and Reina divided the mail to its correct occupants pile upon discovering one for her. The only place she had given the address to was Bob and the orphanage in Manhattan. She sucked in a breath and her fingers started to shake. Could it be? It had only been half a year living here and 6 years since that day. Reina quickly folded the letter and tucked it into her pocket just in time to see Cain walk in followed by Arc. The two had become fast friends. "Good afternoon dear, a snack?" Reina turned to get the ingredients and materials, all the time telling her heart to slow down. She had nothing to hide after all, not really. Cain and Arc looked at each other and Cain shrugged his shoulders. Cain knew Reina pretty well by now, she tended to get embarrassed whenever she felt like thinking about Bane, not that she'd admit it.

"Oh, could you help me deliver the letters? It'll save me loads of time." Reina said over her shoulder, relieved to hear her voice didn't falter.

"Okily - dokily." Cain hopped down from the stool with the letters. Reina let out a sigh. "Meow?" Reina jumped, startled by the sound to find Arc next to her foot, gazing at her distrustfully. Reina gave Arc a soft pat on the head and resumed her cooking.

~~~

Reina excused herself to her bedroom as soon as she could without drawing attention to herself. She skipped her usual routine to the gardens on the pretense of a headache, after the men and Feina left – Feina would have fussed over her immediately. Cain followed his father who was beginning to train him to take over the pack. Arc disappeared sometimes. Feina was sure that Arc was hiding his sweetheart somewhere in the house. She sat on her four poster bed and withdrew the folded letter. She wasn't properly prepared for the contents:

Dear Ms. Striker,

We have finally found the little girl you have been looking for. She is now living with a charming couple in Manhattan. They have requested to meet with you first at 2 o'clock on November 20th at Milestones on Bay Street. Although a little outdated, they had given me a photograph of their happy family taken in New York which I have enclosed for you. I hope it would cease your years of worrying.

Sincerely,

Mary Harper

Director of Hopes Orphanage

Reina could only stare at the photograph. She was having difficulty breathing and seeing, her heart berating erratically and her vision blurring. Only when Arc bit into the side of her hand painfully did she realize it was because she was holding her breath and there were tears all over the photograph and bed cover. She brushed her tears away hastily, it was just unbelievable. She closed her eyes and looked down at the photo again...her eyes drifted from the little baby girl in the center to the two people holding her at the back, and stared long and hard once again, the face of Jack and Elizabeth Locks.

###

Thank you for reading this eBook. Your dedication to finish this eBook is already a great support to me. I hope you enjoyed reading about Reina and Feina's life journey. I would love to hear your feedback on Smashwords.

XOXO

Alison Charm

**Excited to find out what happens next? Visit Smashwords for the second installment of Forget Me Not Series!

Connect with Alison Charm:

Smashwords Interview: https://www.smashwords.com/interview/alisoncharm

Smashwords profile page: https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/alisoncharm

IG@charm.alison

***

Books by Alison Charm

Seeing June

(A Short Renaissance Romance)

Stringing A Doctor

(A story about finding second chances)

Design for You

Forget Me Not – Beginning

(The past is something that can't be forgotten)

Forget Me Not – Remembering

(Some things are better left forgotten)

If It's You

(Anything for the one you love)

Texas Explosion

(Finding love again)

Your Secret Keeper

(Another chance again)

Double Love

(A ménage short)

Two Hot Steps Series

(An Erotic Taboo Romance)

Coming Back To You

(A Young Adult Paranormal)

Overwhelming Series

~Overwhelming Eyes~

~Overwhelming Scents~

(Erotic Romance)

Mirror

(A BBW Paranormal Erotic Romance)

***

Remembering Excerpt

Forget – Me – Not Series #2

Description: Reina and Feina have finally found a place they can call home, Lucas House. An act of bravery ends badly, leading to new meetings and reflections. The truth is, what is frightening isn't living with werewolves but the human mind. Is remembering the past really important? The fact is: nothing can erase the past.

***
Chapter 1

Grey clouds decorated the sky in rows, shadowing skyscrapers and citizens below with darkness. Rain began to pelt against the window pane, drowning all external noise in an endless rhythm. It has been 19 days, 8 hours and 34 minutes since she had received the letter. She wanted to destroy it, rip it and burn it before feeding the blazing fire in the living room below, but no, she had kept the cursed letter safely inside a notebook well-hidden in her pale yellow vanity drawer like a treasure. She doubted she would forget the dreaded date. Yet like a masochist, she kept it, reminding herself what she dreaded was not a dream. She had booked a flight to Manhattan using the excuse that a really important potential client would like to market her soaps. Technically, it was not a complete lie but not the entire truth either. Yes, she would be having a meeting with the client but then at 2 o'clock she would see the foster parents whom she and Feina had ran away from about 7 years ago. No biggie.

"Rei...Rei." Reina jumped, startled by Feina's touch. She turned to regard her sister, her family, and was met with a pair of confused blue eyes. Those sky blues showed clear concern and Reina's heart clenched with fear and guilt. If only Feina knew about their baby sister.

Feina gave Reina a sympathetic smile and proceeded to rub her shoulders, "I know you declined my offer before but still, would you like me to come with you? I'll just keep you company. I'll try to be good." Feina's last emphasis brought a wry smile on her face.

It was a tempting suggestion and she ran over the idea many times. At the end, she decided against it. The one she would be satisfying was herself. Sharing this burden would only relief her own fears by inflicting it onto someone else. How could she be so selfish? Reina shook her head. No, the last thing she wished was for Feina to discover the truth. After seeing her sister smile day after day, with no more sadness looming behind those blue irises, how could she bear to see Feina's eyes cloud with fear and desperation again? She would not. Even if the secret was eating her inside out, creating nothing but a dark hellish void.

"But you've been so absentminded lately." Feina whispered uncertainly and fidgeted her fingers clasped in front of her.

Reina knew she should have reigned in her feelings better but circumstances were beyond her control. Nightmares had started to come back to her. Her lack of sleep and appetite had taken a toll on her which explained her hiding in her room after all chores were completed. Though she feared that her sister would worry, the last person she wanted to see was Bane. The man half infuriated her and half made her want to throw herself at him and bawl her eyes out. It was not like they communicated in any way; no one would count monosyllable responses as conversation. What troubled her was his recent continuation of staring at her again as if her eyes suddenly became windows for him to see through of. It frightened her how his very presence weakened her resolve for secrecy.

"Is it about the wedding?" Feina murmured softly, her head lowered and her fingers playing at the hem of her shirt. Leon had proposed to Feina three days ago. "You know I don't need to get married right away. I can hold it off for at least a year."

Reina could not help but giggle. Feina joined her sister's laughter, relieved to hear the sound again. It felt like ages since she had last heard the musical sound.

"Are you trying to kill Leon? Besides, I doubt the little cub can wait like you." Reina rubbed her hand on Feina's arm to give reassurance.

"You knew?"

"Of course, don't they always say that pregnant women absolutely glow? I think the others knew about it too but were just being polite and waiting for you to announce it." Besides, it would be a dead giveaway seeing how all the male were so courteous and nearly suffocated Feina from doing anything strenuous. Recalling the situation of how Feina snapped at Leon for even bringing her a spoon brought a smile to her face.

"I'm going to wait a little more. I heard Jenna say that you should wait until you're three months pregnant to say anything...some kind of superstition..." Feina shrugged. A pause. "So...you're okay?"

Even though Feina put up an even tone, Reina could hear the worry in Feina's voice and settled on making it disappear. "I'll be fine." She replied as reassuringly as she could muster. With a smile she hoped showed calmness, she added, "I'm just going to take a walk in the garden for some fresh air before the flight."

Feina watched her sister's retreating back and could not help but feel concerned about how each step lacked its usual energetic bounce. She would find out from Reina when she gets back. Right now, her sister deserved some time to settle her feelings. Reina was like that after all. And really, they have all the time in the world. A little space would not hurt.

~~~

Reina stood near an apple tree and stared up at the clear night sky. The rain stopped, leaving a damp fresh scent all around. She loved gazing at the abundant stars above her with the smell of the sweet fruits surrounding her. It was one of the favourite things she enjoyed doing after she started living here – no city lights or carbon dioxide polluting the night sky. She closed her eyes to feel the cool breeze brushing against her.

She was wearing a long silk dress that Feina had bought for her when she last went to town. Life sure changed a lot these past 6 months. They now owned quite a lot of possessions. Most of them were gifts from pack members. Apart from material possessions, the most important change in her life was gaining a home and family that she never thought would be possible. Taking care of Cain and the rest of the Lucas' gave her a sense of completion. Though she could not get rid of the guilt of leaving Angel, taking care of Cain who had lost her mother at a young age in turn helped her find inner peace.

Reina slowly opened her eyes to find a pair of green eyes gazing at her. Bane. He stood confidently tall and his eyes never wavered from hers as he approached. The air sizzled more and more as their distance shortened. How long had it been since they had last made eye contact with each other or been within a foot of the other? When he fully stood only inches away, his body radiating with his strength, pulling at all her heart strings, he slowly bent his head towards her. Reina felt her breath hitched, knowing her heart was about to freeze, when he pressed a soft kiss on the side of her cheek. "Be safe."

~~~

The 6 hours flight to New York, Manhattan passed by extremely quickly. Kay had organized everything for her using one of his many connections. "It's one of the many privileges we have. Manhattan does hold one of the important information centres for paranormal activity." Reina was never one to spoil but found herself grasping for any help.

A chauffeur delivered her from JFK to Hilton where she quickly called to let everyone in Arizona know she was alright before she collapsed on the bed. Sleep immediately claimed her. Surprisingly, this time nightmares did not haunt her but they did again when she was awoken.

At precisely 9 A.M., she received her wake-up call. She had slept the whole night away. Her client, a Mrs. Templeton would be meeting her at 11 o'clock to discuss her soap products.

Reina quickly showered and dressed in a deep purple cashmere sweater. She paired it with a black skirt that swayed as she walks. She loved the soft material, like a hug. She needed hugs today. Lastly, she put on her two inches high heels. She never put on cosmetics but her appearance had not been the best these past few weeks so she applied some blush on her checks, eyeliner and mascara. She gave herself an appraisal in the long mirror and exited her room with a bag of her soap samples for her client. It was important for her to look her best. She was no longer a weak 12 years old child. She was almost 20, a young adult, legal adult. She had nothing to fear anymore.

Ding. The elevator chimed and opened to the ground floor. Reina was about an hour early but it was her plan to get some breakfast into her stomach. She probably would not be able to swallow a single bite later. A waiter led her into an elegant styled breakfast parlor. A large window looked out to the streets. Many people were already rushing by, eager to start their day.

After a bowl of oatmeal and a few assorted fruits, Mrs. Templeton arrived. Just like in the photo she emailed her, she was dressed sharply. A waiter directed the plump, happy woman towards her table. She gracefully flew over to give her a hug, inhaling before releasing her. "You, my dear! Is a genius of scents! You smell absolutely fabulously delightful!" Her voice boomed over the quiet breakfast parlor. Reina turned pink and murmured a thank you. Mrs. Templeton seemed like a kind woman. She was at least two decades older than her but she was very outgoing. Her manners and appearance screamed wealth. She was not used to communicating with this type of person.

"I'm so glad you decided to meet me! As you know I'm part of the Environmental Committee down at the Country Club..." Reina blinked and tried hard to focus on the rapid speech Mrs. Templeton had unleashed upon her. It was the first time she heard any of this but Mrs. Templeton certainly did not appear to have realized it. "So as I was saying, I would like to use your soaps at the Country Club. Those men are always about clearing away the land for their sports but they don't realize how important it is to preserve trees and plants. You know, I studied environmental sciences before I married my husband and decided to stay home with the kids. All I'm asking is for you to help me promote environmental awareness using your soaps. I already have the packaging and everything planned out with the PRs I've hired. Observe." Mrs. Templeton then whipped out her iPad to show her pictures and short advertisement clips. Reina did not have time to comment when a lawyer was introduced. After deliberating and reading the contents of the agreement carefully, she signed it. Mrs. Templeton allowed her to reserve ownership of any product she had made and left all the promotional business part to Mrs. Templeton and proceeds would be split six and Mrs. Templeton, four. Liability and issues of production discussed (by all female pack members), the lawyer went to make a copy of the agreement for her while Mrs. Templeton continued to rant her planned course of action. At least the speech kept Reina from thinking about this afternoon.

~~~

Reina approached the table in Milestones with a heavy heart. Each step seemed to echo in her ears. The woman looked the same, not completely, there were more wrinkles than the last time she saw her and the new haircut tried to hide a scar on her right forehead. Other than that, she still looked as intimidating as ever.

Elizabeth looked up at her and smirked, gesturing for her to sit down. Reina hesitated before she scolded herself under her breath for showing her fear and sat down. She did not have to be afraid of this woman – she would not cower in fear. That was years ago. Reina lifted her chin up and stared right into Elizabeth Locks's cold eyes.

"Coffee? Tea?" Reina shivered, the voice brought memories to rush back to the forefront of her mind. Elizabeth used this tone before she delivered punishments to them – whips, needles, dangling...Stop! Stop it! It's all in the past!

"No, thank you." Reina tried to keep her voice at a monotone. She never avoided eye contact with Elizabeth even when she felt her insides shaking, twisting her into submission. "Let's get to the main topic. What do you want?"

"My, my...you've grown up to be an impatient young woman. You were so obedient when you were little. Must be that dirty little minx, I knew we shouldn't have kept her." Elizabeth sneered, taking a sip of her drink before shaking her head to fix the taste. Reina tightened her hands into a fist on her lap. She maintained her cool. Railing up in a public restaurant would not help her cause; the last thing she wanted to appear was hysterical.

"I want Angel." There was no use hiding it. They have her, the photo was enough proof.

"Who? You mean Lisa? I believe that's impossible. We're a happy family." Elizabeth slowly made her tea, adding in milk and sugar and then swirling it gently with her spoon.

Happy family? Lies. Even if Angel appears happy and safe now, it won't be forever. This sadistic couple will never be satisfied with playing family. The present situation is proof enough. "What do you want?" Reina repeated, trying to hide her desperation, "You found me. There must be something you want. Money?" For the life of her, she would find a way no matter how much.

Elizabeth snorted. "You know what we want." Her voice was a mere whisper and her cold eyes stared at the beautiful woman before her, her insides absolutely boiling with excitement and anticipation at the woman trembling in front of her. "What we were meant to have 7 years ago."

Want to know more? Get your copy today!

***

Mirror Excerpt

A BBW Paranormal Erotic Romance

Description: Misra Brura and her two best friends finally graduated from the high school, a.k.a a torture institution for girls with her body shape and size. Before the three friends go their separate ways, they decided to make their day memorable. Only the next time Misra woke up. She was not in her bed. She was not in her house. She was not with her friends. What she could deduce though was: she was lost in a forest and she had nothing on her.

***
Part 1

The leaves rustled above as the wind breezed through the empty spaces. Sunlight streamed down the forest canopy, casting an ethereal glow among the otherwise dark surroundings. Glistening droplets of morning dew slid down the leaves, barely holding on from the tip of their high perch. The silence in the forest was broken occasionally by a bird's beautiful song, echoing across the distance. Like every day of every year, the mornings were peaceful and calm, except for today. In the middle of the clearing laid a young girl, lying flat on her back, sleeping peacefully, unaware that she disturbed the balance of nature. A brave little rabbit hopped towards this new visitor curiously. What could she be?

"Mm..." The rabbit stilled, its nose wrinkled and darted back the way it came, seems like the little rabbit was not so brave after all.

Misra stretched, hearing her bones protest as each cracked back into its place. Was her bed always this stiff? Her eyes adjusted to her surroundings and she nearly fainted in alarm. "Wha-" Where am I?! Unless her room got painted with forest pictures, nope, these are real. Twisting a leaf the size of her palm between her fingers, the apprehension of her situation was beginning to dawn on her.

This is definitely not my home! Am I actually sleeping on leaves? She jumped up and dusted herself. "Eww!" Just imagining dozens of worms and insects crawling all over her while she was unconscious was enough to make her want to puke. Bile threatened to rise up if she did not cease that train of thought immediately.

"This is just a dream." She said aloud in weak reassurance. Her voice was shaky even to her ears but she was determined to give one last try. "When I open my eyes on the count of three, I'll be back to Sheraton, California with my friends and family, going to the new mini-mall...one, two , three."

Opening one eye to test the waters, so to speak, was enough to make her sigh. Please do not tell her she got kidnapped and dumped somewhere? But she had no recollection of such a traumatizing experience. Her body felt fine except from the stiffness, probably caused by the bad sleeping posture. No matter how much she wrecked her brain with her knuckles, she could not knock some reason out of her mouth to explain why she is currently standing in the middle of a forest.

She sighed and made her way in no particular direction. Which way is north? South? East? West? She could not really see the sun anyway with the impossibly tall trees. These must be three stories tall. Anyway, even with a map she could get lost. That was why she got a phone with GPS services. Her phone! She smacked her pockets of her miniskirt but of course, her phone was nowhere to be found when she needed it the most. Everything was like that apparently. When you least expect it or want it, it will turn up as if laughing at your stupidity. Why, did you not remember putting your wallet on the dresser? And the list went on and on.

Misra moaned and continued tracking through the rough clearing, growing denser and denser by the minute as the gradient increased higher and higher. At one point she debated the wisdom of walking through a forest without any protection. She could meet up with a bear or a wolf. Then again, she doubted holding a little stick would do her any good. She chuckled at the imagery of swinging a stick in front of a wolf. Not particularly funny but in this situation, she would take any opportunity to laugh.

At the sound of water, Misra jumped in joy, the hike certainly drained her and she did not know how long she had been sleeping on the forest floor. Pushing past the impossibly big leaves, she reached a waterfall and a little pool. Close to the edge, she glanced down at the sparkly clear water. "Wow!"

The water would barely reach her mid-drift, which was the extent of its shallowness. Overcome with giddiness, she knelt by the edge, cupped some water with her hands and splashed it on her face. The cold sensation was especially refreshing after her long walk.

She must have walked for hours or even ten minutes but it was impossible to deduce without a watch. Hopelessness was already threatening to seep into her mind but she shook it away. Taking in her surroundings with her hungry eyes, she tried to decipher a clue to tell her where she was. Instead, she got a glimpse of the beautiful surroundings. Tall trees provided a sense of seclusion to this mysterious waterfall with its water gushing down. Water droplets occasionally floated to where she sat, cooling her down. "I should bottle the water here and sell it to people with its refreshing taste!" Was this the purpose she was brought here? Discover a natural springs and sell it to the highest bidder, becoming rich and famous? Misra chuckled and relaxed.

For the moment, she was able to forget her desperate situation. Is there a cave behind it as many books have written? She longed to find out but then what? What was the point in this investigation? Well, it gave her something to do at least, and a nice bath. She sniffed under her armpits and grimaced at the pungent smell wafting towards her. How she wished for deodorant at the moment.

Turning around, Misra listened and watched closely for any abnormal movements but all was clear like it was as she began the hike. Relaxed, she pulled off her shirt and skirt. Her lingerie came next. Placing her clothes in neat folds, she began to wade in the cool water.

She gulped a few down and sighed, running her hands through her wet hair, she hoped that even without conditioner her hair would not turn all frizzy. When she meets civilization again, she wanted to at least look human. She hummed her favourite cartoon theme song as she scrubbed her body with her hands. She would never be as clean as she liked but cleaner nonetheless. Her hands grazed under and around her breasts, stimulating her in a way not entirely intentional. She blushed as her hands dipped lower to her smooth nether lips.

A memory floated by and she gasped. She remembered going to the mall with her friends Kella and Venka! They got bikini wax together as a celebration for their graduation per say. They could not go on a long trip together with Venka going to a university overseas.

A solitary tear slid down her cheek as she remembered the last moment with her friends. At least she would not suffer from prickly rashes out here in the wild. She moaned as her fingers danced up and down her lips. She had planned to finally give her virginity away over the summer but it would be impossible to do so now. Her short fingers would have to satisfy her.

Her ears took in her deep moans and the sound of splashing water as she worked three fingers into her core. There was something arousing about pleasuring herself in the wilderness. Knowing the possibility of getting caught made her feel awfully naughty. The cold water washing over her warming body caused shivers to course through her body. Her thrusting was becoming increasingly furious inside her aching walls until she screamed in ecstasy. Misra panted as she sat on her hunches, with water reaching her chin. She never considered herself to be an exhibitionist but she got to admit, that was the best orgasm she had ever got.

"Oh crap! The water!" Misra blushed pink as she drudged back to her clothes. She had just polluted the drinking supply for perhaps everybody! Hastily donning her clothes in which it stuck to her damp skin, she turned to walk along the edge of the mountain, hopefully she would move past it to find people on the other side. However, not knowing when she would find water again she took a few sips, away of where she bathe of course. The taste did not change at all. Hopefully people would not be able to tell. She would take this to her grave. With that she continued her search for civilization.

~~~

The wolf sniffed the air for the scent of his prey. It was moving towards the Tiger's terrain. Immense jealousy fueled his haste. He would never let his prey be snatched away by the cats. Not this deliciously scented prey.

His long hind legs pushed him off the ground and propelled him meters forward. His thick fur protected him from the branches and rough trees as he sprinted past. He never felt so exhilarated in his life but as to why he could not explain. All he knew was when he caught the scent, he wanted it. He wanted to ravish it or do something to it. The excitement was so overwhelming that he even skipped his brother's coronation ceremony as the pack leader. His brother would just have to understand.

He leaped past the Mermaid Fall and skidded to a halt. Dirt accumulated between his toes as he braked. Sniffing the air, he could easily tell his prey was here. It was intoxicating. With his nose vacuuming the edge of the waterfall, he finally found the spot where she must have deposited her clothes. But no, that was not what was drowning his senses. It was like she was part of the waterfall. Strange. His ears did not pick up any movement at all. The water? He took a sip and his body began to shake and shimmer. Surprised, he howled and in the next moment, he shifted. What? His eyes looked at his hands, in wonder.

"How?"

He shifted involuntarily. This never happened before! After he drank the water, he – the water! He drank some from his hand and groaned. Delicious! Her juices were mixed in with the water. His heart pounded and blood rushed down to his tool. Never had he wanted something with such intensity. He was certain now his prey is a young woman, a sensual young woman that would suit his needs immensely. He could not wait to possess her and drown her in his lust.

Want to know more? Get your copy for free today!
