 
**The Call Of The Dire Wolf**

Heidi Brown

Copyright 2013 by Heidi Brown

Smashwords Edition
Chapter 1: The Call

Alex had just got out of the shower when he heard the "call," he knew it was time. His keen ears perked up as he walked to his balcony in just a towel. He sniffed the air the crisp evening air, drew a big deep breath in, he could sense his pack on the move, they were headed to the sacred grounds. He heard the call, a chorus of almost mournful howls, beckoning him and forcing him to obey. Without further thought he leaped over the log railing of the balcony shifting to a wolf in midair.

As he ran he howled in response to his Alpha's call. Alex knew this night would come, he just didn't know it would be so soon. Tonight, he thought to himself, _I fight to prove my worth and status to my pack, No pressure._ He took in all the scents he could as he ran; the pines, the snow, the animals and the faint smell of smoke filled his senses and calmed some of his nerves as he neared the sacred grounds. The sacred grounds were high in the Rocky Mountains, somewhere between Idaho and Montana and along the continental divide.

In his wolf form Alex leaped and bounded from the rocky crevices and he wove in and out of the trees with such ferocity and agility. He loved it. He followed the pack through a cave the lead out into a beautiful clearing that had all the native flora and fauna living secretly in this bowl shaped cavern.

Alex was the last to arrive which for some reason seemed fitting since he was the reason for the impromptu ceremony. Ceremonies are important to the wolves, they remind each generation of why they are in this world and what their ancestors sacrificed to hide their kind and maintain survival, but most importantly it served to teach and remind wolves of the power of the beast within them and the remind them just how wild they really are.

Alex's Alpha howled and he and Alex changed into their human forms. The Alpha circled Alex, sizing him up. Maybe it was being the pup of the clan or standing around naked, either way he felt extremely vulnerable at that moment. The tall, muscular alpha wore his hair in the traditional way of his people, long and loose but around his forehead he wore a beaded, leather headband that had the insignia of his pack. Then he realized every glowing pair of eyes was on him. "Alex!" His alpha began, "Are you ready to prove yourself to the pack, to prove your strength and leadership; your dominance and loyalty?"

His pack had once been a great Native American Tribe, rich in history and culture. His father was the alpha for many centuries and a great leader and warrior. The story and legends of his tribe were known far and wide and many wolves respected and feared them, for they fought and were victors in many battles. Some of these battles are known in history while others are the nothing more than myth and legend but Alex knew the truth. His people have changed over the centuries but also stayed the same. Though tribe was now racially mixed both in human and wolf he knew that the true strength of a tribe was how well it adapted to changing times.

"Yes, Alpha. Yes my Father." Alex responded with confidence. The Alpha nodded in approval, then turned to the pack and said, "Alex is here to fight for dominance and earn his right to be called Alpha. Does the pack approve?" The pack howled their approval. Alex shifted into his wolf and waited for the first to challenge him.

A grey colored wolf jumped into the circle and growled at Alex, looking straight into his eyes. Alex could feel the hair on his neck stand up as he readied himself to attack. The Alpha readied reminded the circling wolves that, for the sake of keeping the species alive, that the fight would be to the submission and not to the death. Alex would have to fight and challenge many wolves to prove himself as strong if not stronger than the reigning alpha.

Alex fought wolf after wolf until each bowed and turned away. His beast had complete control of him as he bit, snarled, clawed, and threw his opponents. Every wolf he fought did not come away from battle unscathed he had fought fiercely, and paid for it in return with his own flesh and blood. His last and final opponent would be his Alpha.

The Alpha sauntered into the ring, sizing up his opponent, but didn't give Alex the chance to even think before he lunged and sunk his teeth into Alex's hide. Alex wiggled his way out of the clenched jaws of the huge alpha. The alpha rolled and pushed Alex away with his paws he backed up to put distance between them. As if the cue the two huge wolves lunged at each other at the same time pulling each other to the ground, snarling and growling in a whirlwind of fur, fangs and claws. Suddenly, amid the chaos, silence deafened the night, the victor emerged from the fight, craned his head toward the full moon and howled his victory, and the rest of the pack joined in with their own howls and yips. Alex had won.

The alpha growled at the pack forcing them to stop and bow at Alex, then he turned to Alex and transformed into a man. The rest of the pack to their reigning alpha's lead and shifted into their human forms as well. Alex looked at each of his pack members trying to remember each one, they were to be his to lead and protect from this night on. As he looked around he took in his surroundings. The full moon and his heightened senses helped him see that the sacred grounds were at the mouth of a cave and circled many craggy rocks and cliffs that even in the peak of summer, were capped with snow. It has been hidden from humans for centuries. Alex had only been to the sacred grounds a few times, for special ceremonies, one of which being his first transformation.

The alpha commanded his pack's attention, all the wolves that fought and submitted to Alex, stepped forward and bowed, first to the Alpha and then to Alex, and expressed their allegiance. All of the wolves were bruised and bloody. They had all fought hard all ten of them, the most dominant members of his pack. As Alex accepted their allegiance the reigning alpha turned to the pack and began the other half of the ceremony. With voice that was steeped in authority the Alpha began the oaths.

"Alex has proven himself, dominant and worthy of the title of Alpha. Alex, do you vow to lead the pack with loyalty and respect? Do you promise to keep the pack safe and do them no harm? And do you accept the title of Alpha?" Alex's posture straightened as he tried to mirror the authority directed at him into his own response. "Yes, Alpha."

Alex didn't have time to brace himself before his alpha lunged at him shifting in flight. Alex had to fight his own instincts and force himself to submit and restrain himself from shifting into his wolf form. He knew what was happening, the alpha was bestowing upon Alex the 'Alpha Mark.' When Alex finally rose his chest and shoulder blade was bleeding fiercely from the claw marks. Five long and deep lacerations that went across the whole right side of his chest and five gashes of the same length and depth marred his right shoulder blade.

The alpha shifted back to his human form, his hands were dripping with Alex's blood, as he untied the headband from his own head and tied it around Alex's. The alpha then turned to the rest of the pack and pointed to Alex, presenting them their new alpha, and then he bowed in honor and loyalty to Alex. "I, John Longclaw, warrior and alpha of the Great Wolf Tribe, I give your new alpha!"

The ceremony was over and the wolves began their descent down the mountain yipping, barking and howling into the night on their way to the main lodge for the human part of the festivities.
Chapter 2: Evil Returns

The lodge was a grand log cabin, made of beautiful fallen timber, and decorated in earthy accents. The lay out was open with a large stone fireplace in the center of the large space. The harsh winters in the mountains made this necessary as well as created a warm, inviting environment that seemed to put everyone at ease. The lodge had many bedrooms and could accommodate Alex's whole pack if needed. It was also where he lived.

At the lodge, food and refreshments were set out for all the guests. Now that most of his pack was here and in human form, Alex was greeted more heartily and congratulated for his recent accomplishment.

He was required to remain shirtless for the duration of the night so that people could admire his markings. His wounds were dressed with herbs, this slowed the healing process so that the scars would remain forever. His face was painted with the warrior paint, as was his chest and from the waist down he donned the traditional animal hide leggings and moccasins. His hairs was tied back in a short ponytail and he still wore the headband his father had given him.

Once everyone had seen the marks and congratulated him, shots glasses full of whisky were passed around and Alex's best friend, Mike, began the toast, "To Alex, our new Alpha. May his..." Mike's toast was interrupted when a grayish mist engulfed the room and a woman's voice shrieked causing all the wolves to wince and some to even howl. When Alex recovered from the excruciatingly high pitched shrill, he realized the voice was asking something. "Where is she? I know you protect your own and the time has come. YOU WILL HAND HER OVER!"

People were glancing from one to another, not knowing what to say or do. Alex looked around the room for the origin of the voice. The gray mist began to fall to the ground and began to swirl. The swirling mist grew to a column then erupted in flames. From within the flames wings began to unfold revealing a woman. Alex could smell the anger and evil seething out of her. His senses were on high alert as he waited for her next move.

Alex watched her look around the room, her head cocking to the side as she read all the faces searching for something. Her body movements were not natural, and at times she looked more bird like than human. She had red that hair shimmered when she moved and even her eyes had flames in them. She sauntered around the room studying all the females. When she turned her back on Alex he was stunned to find that her wings were not like real wings but almost stringy in texture and the flames seemed to slide down the tendrils. The wing hung lightly and gracefully to the floor.

She walked over to Alex, looked him in the eyes and grinned. Alex maintained his composure restraining himself from attacking. Her stench of sulfur and ash burned his nose but he still remained calm. Then she started to laugh. Her laugh betrayed her evil demeanor; it was almost gentle and melodic. "You're the new alpha?" as she asked the question she tapped his headband with the tip of her finger. "YOU will return the girl to me." She backed away from Alex, and erupted into flames and then disappeared.

Alex looked around for his elders, before he could make the decision to have a meeting; an old, white haired man stepped forward and called a meeting of the tribal elders.
Chapter 3: The Dire Wolf

Alex was, for the first time permitted to enter into the meetings and workings of the elders and the Alpha. The smoke of the fire and peyote assaulted his senses, causing him to become overwhelmed with the smells and dizziness that set him off balance for a brief moment. Alex slowly lowered himself to the floor while the elders sang their rhythmic chants of prayer and blessing to the great mother earth. The chanting was calming and enchanting. Alex's mind was sent to a different place and time.

He was standing against a full moon, the shadow of a massive wolf towering above him. The wind was cold and crisp, howling through the trees in harmony with the howl of the shadowed wolf. The wolf turned to him suddenly staring at him with glowing red eyes. The wolf stepped out of the shadows and Alex saw that the wolf was completely white, not a single blemish marred his beautiful coat. This wolf was massive, muscular and lean. His fangs were long, like those of the prehistoric saber tooth tiger. The White Wolf sauntered over to him, whined and then bowed. Alex stood there watching the wolf in apprehension and awe. The White Wolf heard something and took off into the night before Alex could follow him, some invisible force shred through him, searing him down to his very soul. The pain was too much and he blacked out.

Alex awoke from his trance in a cold sweat; a medicine woman was waving peyote and ceremonial feathers around his body. She looked at the former alpha and said, "He has seen the white one." Alex was confused in all the preparation he had in the last few months his father, never told him about the 'white one.' Alex's confusion and questions played across his face. So his father, the former alpha began solemnly

"Many years ago a great white wolf came to our tribe asking for asylum, as is our custom we welcome all who have a wolf's spirit into our tribe as family. But this wolf was different, no one had ever actually seen a white wolf, they were a legend. He was a great protector and my best friend." Alex's saw the sadness in his father's dark eyes. "That is the wolf you saw in your vision."

The shadows of the flickering flames of the fire danced across everyone's face and Alex could see and smell the different emotions that filled the room. The most prevalent was fear. "Why haven't I ever heard of White Wolves before?" Alex asked.

"Until Bane had come to our pack, they were just a legend and many of the tribal elders believed them to be extinct." John answered, emotions of sadness and defeat gently laced his words, and still he continued knowing that the fate of his pack and tribe was being tested.

"Bane, was the name he had given himself, for he said he was cursed, I never knew why he felt that way, nevertheless he became a brother to me. He stayed with the pack for many years, he fell in love with a young wolf, her name was Aspen and soon they were married. On the eve of their wedding, during their blessing from the tribal elders, she fell ill and was unconscious for many days. When she finally awoke she told of a vision that she would give birth to a great she-wolf. That would defeat a great and evil power that would, if not defeated, would obliterate the wolves and as well as the other animal tribes. We had no idea how just how literally we should interpret her vision, until her first pregnancy, when the being that you saw tonight in the great lodge, came for her child. We thought for a while that since she lost the baby that we were safe but Aspen and the Elders had many other visions. That was when we knew the threat was real."

"So, Bane and Aspen left and went into hiding to protect themselves and our pack. I sent them to find a witch strong enough to hide them and protect them. That was the last time I saw and heard from them. I believe that the being is a Phoenix or used to be a Phoenix, but something has polluted her, made her evil and very strong. I think that Aspen has finally given birth to the foreseen child, and that is why the Phoenix came to night."

"So what you are saying is that I am to find this child and then what?" Alex finally asked.

"She will need to be taught about her powers and protected for the survival of our kind, Alex. I think that something has happened to Aspen and Bane if the Phoenix can sense the baby's life force."

Alex stood and started pacing and thinking about all that he had been listening too. I wasn't a question of whether or not he should take the responsibility but whether it was even possible to find this child especially if she wasn't supposed to be found. With a renewed motivation and the desire to protect his pack and tribe he stood proud and steadfast with his chest out and jaw set and asked, "Where do I begin?"

"When they left I sent them south to Nevada, Las Vegas to be exact. I had a good friend who had connections and access to the power needed to hide them from The Phoenix, but from there I don't know where they went." John answer was not as helpful as Alex had hoped but it was a place to start.

John handed his son a worn out photograph of the married couple. Alex studied it, he wanted to remember as much of them as possible so that he might be able recognize them even if they had altered some of their appearances.

Aspen was beautiful, slender, and very feminine. Her wedding garb although it was Native-American, was more of the modern side, because it had more colors and whiter hue to the skins. She wasn't completely of Native-American heritage, there hints of a European background her facial features and her eyes were blue against her darkened skin tone. Aspen's husband was truly magnificent he was very tall with wide shoulders, and very muscular. Though he looked a lot like and American Indian there was something older about his features, something reminiscent, of the Neanderthal displays in a museum.
Chapter 4: Vegas

Las Vegas, was not at all what Alex had imagined specially the Las Vegas that his father had sent him to. This was not the shiny, glittery and glamorous Las Vegas, no, this was the dingy, dirty and seedy Las Vegas Underground. The last known address of this "friend" his father had sent him too, was an abandoned warehouse. Alex stood at the only door that seemed to be operational for what seemed like an hours waiting to see if there would be any sign of activity supernatural or not.

He sat in his pickup truck fumbling with the paper that his father had scrawled the information on, "Grinder, what kind of a name is Grinder?" he said out loud to himself. He sat in the truck for hours, until after the sunset and the real Las Vegas was coming alive. He could smell supernatural in the air, electricity mixed with sulfur and a hint of smoke; that is what the Supernatural smelled like to him. He watched intently as a plethora of interesting characters started showing up. He saw people in strange costumes and even a few men dressed as women start to fill in the space near a thick steel door.

A wildly dressed couple was the first to approach the door, he couldn't tell their genders' let alone their species. One was wearing a large colorful headdress adorned with bright red feathers, the both of them were wearing gold sequined dresses and tall matching platforms but only one of them sounded and walked like a female. They walked up to the door and knocked a rhythmic code into it, then a window suddenly appeared, the couple said something and then the door opened and let them in. Alex watched as more people did the same. When the crowd died down some and he was sure he remembered the code for knocking on the door he approached cautiously and knocked.

A big bald man appeared in the window, all Alex could see was his bald head and strangely colored eyes. The bouncer sniffed at Alex through the window and whispered something in a language Alex wasn't familiar with. When Alex didn't respond soon he enough the window started close but Alex's wolf speed was fast enough to shove a dagger into it and stop it. "I am here to see Grinder!" Alex half shouted and half growled to the bouncer.

The Bouncer's eyes began to glow and different colors began to swirl inside them. He stared directly in to Alex's eyes and snarled, "Grinder is not seeing any one right now and if he wanted to see you, you would have been able to pass the security test." Alex kicked the door angrily at the beast of a man, shoved his alpha head band into the window. "Give Grinder this and tell him John Longclaw sent me." The bouncer huffed and rolled eyes and walked away.

A few minutes later the door opened. The Bouncer was on the other side and the size of his big bald head confirmed Alex's suspicions because the man had to be at least seven feet tall and nearly as wide, and he was as solid as a semi-truck. The bouncer barely fit down the dark narrow hall that he lead Alex through. The hall didn't seem like it belong to a warehouse and it was obvious that they were going downhill, further under the warehouse than seemed possible.

After what seemed like hours of damp, smelly, and cavernous hallways they finally reached a door to what appeared to be a safe. The bouncer spun a huge wheel in different directions then the door opened and they were met with a blast of air and heavy metal music. There room was huge and round; along one wall was a bank of forty or so television monitors. Alex noticed that the monitors were live video feeds from the front door, the hallways, and even a night club. There were also feeds from other places as well. In front of the wall of televisions sat a teenaged looking girl. She was sitting crossed legged on top of the desk with her back to him. She had jet black hair with fire engine red streaks that was done up in pig tails. She wore a black tank top and short plaid skirt all accentuated with chains and spikes, even her big chunky platform boots had spikes on them. He watched her for minute, as she bobbed her head and knees to the music, before he cleared his throat to get her attention.

Slightly startled she turned around and smiled. She jumped off the desk and kind of bounced to the stereo and turned the music down. "I am sorry I didn't hear you come in. Bouncer is usually louder than my music."

Alex chortled, "Its okay. The brute's name is actually bouncer?" He asked in disbelief.

"Well, no, but I don't know his real name, and he answers to bouncer. So what brings you here?" She asked.

"I am looking for Grinder, he is supposed to help me find some members of my pack."

"Well you found her, I mean Grinder of course, that's me" Alex was shocked to say the least when he imagined grinder, he expected someone bigger, older and less female. Before Alex could say something she darted off to a filing cabinet and came back with a thick folder.

"I Know, I know, I am not what you expected, the real grinder passed a few years ago and left everything to me, his daughter. So I continued the "Grinder Legacy" so to speak because I knew that people would respect him and remember him better than a teenage girl. And third I was warned someone named Longclaw might come to me for help and I was told to give this to him."

Alex began flipping through the file. It contained pictures of Aspen and Bane, old correspondence, a journal and a couple of other files. "Did the original Grinder tell you why this is so important?"

"No he just said that it was extremely important that I give you that and help you out in any way I can."

"Have you read any of this file?" Alex asked still flipping through the papers. Grinder looked down sheepishly and twiddled with her fingers. "Yes; but only because the curiosity was killing me. Dad knew he was dying and made me promise that keep this safe and let know no one know about it. He made it sound so important and so dire...that...that....I HAD TO LOOK AT IT...you know?" Alex attempted to stop her but she kept rambling on about how romantic the whole story was and other things.

After a few minutes of her rambling she finally let out a big sigh or maybe she was catching her breath, Alex didn't know which, and apologized for being so nosy. "It's okay, really, it is, Grinder. But I could use some help. I am just not sure how yet let me go read this and I will see you tomorrow okay?"

"That is totally awesome! I will help out anyway I can. Do you think I could meet Aspen and Bane? Oh their story is so romantic." Alex just chuckled, "Goodnight and I will see you tomorrow"

"Oh wait don't forget your headband" Grinder called out and she and tossed it to him.
Chapter 5: The Campout

Alex had made camp in the desert outside of Las Vegas. He thought it would be safer that way, more anonymity. Aside from seclusion, camping in the desert afforded Alex some creature comforts, like the ability to shift without attracting attention, and he could sleep without the scents of everyone who had ever been in a single hotel room. Too many different caused the wolf in him to become territorial and his human side to be disgusted.

Alex sat around his camp fire. He was reading the file that contained the story of Aspen and Bane. There were assorted letters and post cards, pictures, and even a medical file. There didn't seem to be anything direct about a baby, but there was something about Aspen's visions; in one letter especially:

Dear Grinder,

Thank you for telling us about _her_. She was very helpful. We are hoping her potions will end the pregnancy or prevent any future pregnancy so we can kill the Phoenix. The Visions are getting more vivid though. I am afraid for any child I would bring into this world. The visions are showing that this baby will suffer greatly before she can overcome evil.

Please stay in touch

Love,

Aspen

The letter was the most recent at almost 25 years old and the postmark was from Portland, Oregon. It wasn't much but it was a start. He was about to call his father, when a low growl came from around a mound of rocks. Alex's senses were on high alert. He waited for the animal to show itself, he could sense its trepidation, and smell it anxiety; It was a coyote but it darted off before he could smell if it was some sort of shifter or not. He waited just to make sure it was gone before continuing to call his father.

The conversation with his father was short and informational. His father was pleased the Grinder was able to keep some information on Aspen and Bane. But John had warned his son that going to Portland, and making himself known, could be dangerous for him and his pack. That is where Grinder was going help him. Alex had a plan forming in his mind.
Chapter 6: The Meeting

Tia woke to loud moan of pain emanating from the room next to hers, _apparently Krysta had too much fun last night,_ she thought to herself. Tia got up out of bed and stretched her arms as she headed to the kitchen to make coffee. She had to clear the counter of all the red solo cups just to find the coffee maker. As the coffee began to brew and fill the house with its warm inviting smell. She stood there in her pajamas sipping her coffee. It was a warm summer morning and the sun shown gloriously through the windows of the house.

Tia _had_ to do some yoga, it was the perfect time so she slipped off her tank top so that she was in a sports bra and shorts, and headed to her "yoga spot" in front of a big story window. She slowly began the poses focusing on her breathing. She let the smells of the neighborhood take over her senses and almost fell over in the middle of the warrior pose when the most intoxicating scent hit her. It was such a wonderful scent, It was piney and fresh like a snowy forest on the first day of spring and cinnamon wafted through that smell. She was at the window sniffing the air when bang in the kitchen shoved her back to reality.

Tia went back to the kitchen to see what she was cooking, even though she could already smell the bacon Nadia had just opened. "Hey Nadia, make sure my bacon is extra crisp" Tia yelled into the kitchen. "I haven't even started cooking it. Hey! How did you know I was going to cook bacon" Nadia yelled back. Before Tia could respond Krysta yelled from the hallway, "Don't be so loud I am seriously hung over girls." Tia and Nadia just burst out laughing.

"Why aren't you two ever hunger over?" Krysta huffed as she sat at the breakfast bar. "Well, I don't drink. Alcohol is loaded with carbs and has no nutritional value" Nadia replied rather smugly. That was Nadia super healthy; and had a homemade remedy for everything. Nadia's grandmother was some sort healer, or at least that is what she called herself.

While she ate Nadia's breakfast, Tia took inventory of all the damage from last night's kegger and laughed. Krysta's bra hanging from the ceiling fan, huge piles and pyramids of beer cans on every table. Streams of toilet paper were strung everywhere and there was some sort of pink stain on the carpet in the dining room and that was just what she could see from the kitchen. She grabbed her mug and started to walk around the rest of the house. _It's a good thing I own this house, if I had a landlord we would be evicted for sure,_ she was thought to herself as she examined a new and rather large hole in the wall behind the couch.

Krysta looked at Tia with and raised eyebrow waiting for her response. Tia just mumbled "I don't know, just don't... I guess..." Then asked jokingly, "Hey Krysta did you lose something last night?" and pointed to the ceiling fan. Krysta laughed not in the least embarrassed and sighed dreamily, "last night was awesome, or at least what I can remember of it." Krysta loved to party. Tia changed the subject and chimed in "Well come on girls lets finish breakfast and start cleaning up."

Nadia and Krysta were about the only family she had. They were her best friends and had been since childhood. She couldn't really think of a time without them. All of her best and favorite adventures had Nadia and Krysta in them. There was always Krysta with the idea and Nadia being the voice of reason in every memory. Like when they snuck out to meet some boys from school at the river and got a police escort home, it was Krysta's idea to steal the beer from her dad and Nadia saying that this is not a good Idea. Most of all those two were with Tia when she needed them the most: when her mother died.

Tia's mom _was_ loving, when she was on her medication, and could even hold down a job and maintain a stable life. She was even able to buy the house that she left for Tia, the same house that she and her girlfriends lived in. Tia thought of her mom as she was straightening up some pictures. There were some good memories and some bad memories but she still missed her mom. Tia suddenly snapped herself out of it and continued cleaning her house.

All three of the girls were singing, dancing and laughing while they cleaned. They were all talking about Krysta's striptease show put on last night. "Hey I am just sexy and I know it, besides none of the guys seemed to mind..." krysta defended herself. Tia laughed at her best friend while she sorted through the mail.

They were just about done cleaning up when Danny burst through the door saying, "I am here and I am queer, bitches!" The girls lost all control. "Danny!" Nadia greeted him with hug then realized he was wearing one of her shirts. "Is that is _my_ shirt?" she asked incredulously. Danny replied haughtily, "I am doing you a favor it looks better on me anyways." Nadia was obviously annoyed but not mad. Danny realizing that quickly changed the subject. "So ladies, did you see your new, super hot and delicious next door neighbor? I call dibs by the way." Since they lived on a corner it across the street from a church it was easy to figure out which house Danny was talking about. They were all crowded around the same window Tia had caught herself sniffing out of earlier that morning.

There he was shirtless, carrying boxes from a portable storage container to the house. "Unless your gay-dar is going off, the sexy hunk is mine." Krysta elbowed Danny in the ribs. The four of them were glued to the window screen.

Tia was breathless, she was entranced by him, she watched him stop at the container with his back toward them. He had his shirt hanging from the back pocket of his faded blue jeans. The way he walked, the way he carried himself commanded respect and conveyed authority. His skin was the bronze in color; his hair was black and tied in a short ponytail. She took in his sharp features, then she saw the five long scars on his right shoulder blade, they looked savage and fierce and incredibly sexy to her. Then she smelled that wonderful woodsy, spicy scent, she had to get closer. Tia stepped away from the window while her friends were deciding who should go over and what to say. Tia just had get closer, so she grabbed a bag of garbage and started to take it out to the curb. She didn't care that she was in nothing but a sports bra and yoga pants.

Tia had just dropped the garbage at the curb, when his scent completely enchanted her and before she realized what she was doing she was walking over to him sniffing the air as she went. It wasn't until she saw is back straighten and him turn around sharply that she realized just how close she was and that she was sniffing him. _Oh god I am sniffing him like a dog what the hell is wrong with me? I hope he didn't notice;_ was all she was thinking when he started walking toward her.

Tia was dazed; she couldn't will her body to move. She just stood there while he circled her, his scent was intoxicating, the very sight of his chiseled body, almost made her lose her mind. He was broad shouldered and had extremely well defined pectoral muscles and across his right peck were scars matching the five on his shoulder blade. He circled her one last time and then stopped in front of her. He shot her an amazing smile, Tia almost melted. She couldn't help herself she reached out and touched his scars, she caressed them. She felt him relax under her touch, then she heard him growl.

Her face must have told him something because he grinned mischievously at her; his eyes were dark brown and playful. That is when she realized how close his face was to hers. She panicked and started at a quick pace back to her house before she could get there he yelled at her. "Hey!" she stopped and turned to look at him. He tossed her his shirt and said, "Tia, put this on." It wasn't a suggestion and something in it her made her obey. She put it on and ran to her house, to her friends.

"OH. MY. GOD. Tia what the hell was all of that?" Krysta asked Tia when she ran into the house. Before Tia could respond Danny answered for her "Girl it was HOT that's what was Mmmm Hmmm..." Tia slid down the door to sit on the floor. The neighbors scent flooded her mind then she remembered she was wearing his shirt. Tia stopped and snapped to reality when she realized her friends where watching her intently. "What?" Tia asked innocently. "Why are you smelling his stinky, sweaty shirt?" Nadia asked her. "..And how did he know your name?"

"TIA!....TIA!" Krysta was now shaking Tia out of her trance where she sat blocking the front door. "What?" Tia asked hazily.

"What the HELL was that?" Krysta yelled incredulously at Tia. Her question radiated shock and disbelief. Krysta didn't give Tia a chance to answer and blurted out, "You looked like you were about to hump his leg!" Tia looked at each of her friends trying to find an explanation. "I...Um...OH I don't know!" she stuttered over her words as she took off at a dead run to her bedroom door and slammed the door abruptly behind her.

Tia flopped on her bed, trying to clear her foggy mind. She froze and almost held her breath while her friends stood outside her door asking if she was okay, not wanting to talk to any of them. She started singing out loud to herself hoping to convince her friends that she couldn't really hear them because she was listening to music. It worked, they retreated to the kitchen. Tia laid in bed listening to their conversation.

"Shhhh, she can still probably hear us," Krysta was saying, "Nad, you know about her freaky hearing thing."

"What freaky hearing thing?" Danny asked.

"Oh, she can hear really well, I mean really well, like a dog." Nadia answered Danny's question.

"Oh, well, whatever that scene was out there it got her all hot and bothered." Danny responded. Danny's remark was answered with agreements from the other two girls.

What her friends were saying was mostly true. He aroused something very deep inside of her, something primal, powerful and wild. Tia couldn't deny the attraction she had toward him, but the strong pull of the attraction was terrifying and familiar all at the same time. She wasn't sure if she could control herself the next time she saw him. Tia took a resolved deep sigh and decided she would just have to try to avoid him as much as possible, for the time being.
Chapter 7: The Search Begins

Alex stood in the doorway of his new rental, stunned but excited. Her scent had called to him, beckoned him. She smelled of Lupine, Sage and mountain breezes. He had to have her. He just had too. The beast inside him howled at the thought of having her. The human part of him couldn't get her beauty out of his mind.

His new place, identity and line of credit came courtesy of Grinder. Alex decided that some anonymity would protect him as well as his pack and provide some cover while he snooped around Portland. In any other situation he could sniff out the local packs and any other species but in Portland, Oregon the whole city was rank with supernatural people and creatures most weren't even afraid to hide.

He closed his eyes remembering every detail of her face and every curve of her sensual body. Her dark hair and olive skin accentuated her blue eyes making them intense and piercing, though the way she looked at him was inviting, there was fear in her eyes as well. He tried to shake the vision from his head and began to unpack but his mind kept wandering back to her sexy body and the fear present in her eyes.

Focusing on the task at hand he started moving boxes to their rightful rooms or area. His new home was a small bungalow style house southeast Portland. It was older and had a lot of charm, from the dark wood trim and crown molding. It had an open layout so that the kitchen, living room, and dining room all flowed together making the rather small home seem really spacious. The best part of the house was the next door neighbor.

The day drug on as he tried with every fiber of his being to focus on unpacking and setting up his house. Her scent was so strong and even when she wasn't near the memory of it flooded his senses and clouded his mind. Every time he thought of it images and visions of her would render him useless. She had to be his mate there was no other explanation for the total assault on his senses. He had mates before but none as spellbinding as Tia.

_Tia, Tia,_ he thought _._ He was able to glean some information, like her name, from her thoughts, however flustered and scattered they were. He knew from what he saw that she found him attractive and that she had no idea why she could smell him, and he was pretty sure she could see the rather bold and seductive image he had been thinking or else she wouldn't have ran away. After reflecting on this he decided that maybe she didn't know she was wolf. Alex decided to try to find some local packs to see if he could find out more about her, but until then he would have to try to talk to her and ask her out on a date, but first he had to find Aspen and Bane.
Chapter 8: A Hasty Exit

Grinder was so excited when she read the caller ID on her cell phone; she couldn't wait to hear what Alex had found out. The only thing was he couldn't find much out, which was something she worried about. Portland had become somewhat of a sanctuary for the supernatural. In fact, according to Alex, there was so many different species of supernatural, that he had so much trouble differentiating the smells that he couldn't even find a local wolf pack. But fortunately for Alex, he came to the right place or woman any ways.

Grinder was busy typing away looking through her father's now computerized database of business contacts. She was about to give up when she found a possibility that was cross referenced but not yet entered into the new database. With a huff she got up and went to the door of the archives. Although she hated how antiquated and confusing her father's system was she felt most at home in the archives since that is where she spent much of her childhood playing. She had to dig through at least five different filing cabinets before she found a solid lead on a pack.

She almost couldn't contain herself while she left Alex a message about the pack in southeast Portland. She was just ending the message when atmosphere in the room suddenly changed and she got a chill running down her spine. She heard a strange skittering noise somewhere in the back of the room. Out of instinct she grabbed her bug out bag. A low laugh rang through the darkness. "Bouncer!" she yelled frantically over again but there was nothing.

"Bouncer can't help you. He is a little dead right now. You will be soon if you don't tell me where they are." The androgynous, voice sneered. Grinder glanced at her video monitors and saw Bouncer lying on the floor in front of the main entrance motionless. The voice was laughing now but she couldn't tell where the voice was coming from or from whom. The skittering came from all directions. She grabbed everything on her desk and shoved as much as she could into her bag. From the front pocket she pulled out a small pouch and lit it on fire. The red smoke enveloped her as she focused on her destination, Alex.

In a matter of seconds, the smoke cleared and she was standing in the middle of an empty living from of the dark house that she acquired for Alex. No one was home, not wanting anyone to follow or find her she dug into her bag and began to set some mystical traps for anything that might come. The first was a was a binding spell she that she placed over the whole house, the second was a disarming spell, which, depending on the creature would either disarm or force a being to shift. When she was satisfied that she was safe she set up her laptop to view the security cameras at her office, remotely.

She sat there huddle around her laptop in the dark waiting for Alex to return.
Chapter 9: The Meeting Part Two

Alex had been running around in his wolf form, around Portland every night trying to find something on the wolves of the area. He couldn't find anything, not even a scent. A few nights past he thought he caught the scent near a biker clubhouse near Holgate and Ninety-Second. But as soon as he got close to the clubhouse the scent was gone. There was obviously magic in Portland to mask the smell of wolves, this much he was sure of.

His nightly escapades always ended with run with Tia, although she didn't know it, since Alex stayed in the shadows and his wolf form. Alex had learned that Tia would sneak out against her friends' warnings and go for nightly runs which ended with a skinny dip in one of the neighbor's swimming pool, weather permitting of course. Tonight was one of those nights.

The pool that Tia swam in was in the backyard of a turn-of-the-century Victorian style house. The house wasn't lavish but very nice and it owners obviously had some money. The pool took up most of the yard. The pool wasn't the most impressive part of this house and yard. The most impressive thing was the whole outdoor space was set up and as accommodating as any hotel resort.

Alex found a soft spot near the hedges and settled. He began to doze off a little while listening to the soft trickling of the water while she swam. The sounds of the water and her breathing mingled with her scent which made his tail wag slightly as he let out a soft rumble of content. He began to think of their first meeting which made him laugh to himself. Suddenly the sounds of the water stopped and her breathing and heart rate increased. He perked up listening and sniffing for what startled her.

"Who's there?" Tia called out into the darkness. Alex was still trying to hear what she heard. "Who's there?" this time it was more of a demand. "I heard you laughing you creep!" That last comment suddenly hit Alex. _She couldn't have heard me laughing I am a wolf right..._ That though was cut off by the sudden realization that he had shifted to his human during his little nap. He could hear her footsteps come closer to his current location. He panicked and tried to shift but as he shifted he saw her. Still panicked and in mid transformation he dove into the pool.

He came up for air in his human form cautiously, so not to scare her, but she didn't seemed afraid. "I...I.. could smell the whole time. I just didn't know it was you." she told him. She slid into the pool and paddled to him. She stared into his eyes it seemed as though as she was looking for something. Alex was taken aback by her behavior, and also charmed by it. "What are you?" she asked.

"I am a Wolf, just like you." He answered her gingerly but his answer elicited and chortle from her. "I am not a Wolf." she responded. Alex didn't know what to say next they just stared at each other for a moment. When he saw the curtain move and a figure in the window move. "You have an audience." he motioned to the window of the older Victorian style house. "No. We have an audience. That is Mr. Harper or his husband I can't tell which I have known them since I was a kid and they always let me swim. Just don't tell my roommates." He nodded and winked in response. She paddled to her shirt and grabbed a towel. He jumped out of the pool while her back was turned, shifted and ran back to his house.

_That was a close one. I am going to have to talk to her soon._ He thought to himself. He was so deep in his thoughts that he hadn't realized he had already made it home. Something was off he could sense it he scratched at the front door, it came open easily. He wandered through the threshold but before he could see what was in his house, his vision blurred and his body began to contort. He had no control and the pain was searing through every inch of his body. He howled. This was the most painful shift he had ever been through.
Chapter 10: A Clouded History

"Are you sure they are ready?" Janine asked the elderly woman from through her screen door. The woman was easily in her seventies if not older. Her face showed her age and anyone who looked upon that face knew her life had not been easy and she had plenty of secrets to tell. It had been years since Janine had seen the old woman and was really hoping that she would never see her again. Janine's hopes were in vain because, even though she saw the omens and understood the changes, her worst nightmare was about to come true.

"You know as well as I that they are pack, and you knew that Tia's mother was not crazy, and you knew this day would come it has been foretold Janine." The old woman's voice was raspy and cracked as she almost scolded Janine. "It is time to tell them, I don't have the strength to bind their essences anymore." the old woman snapped at Janine and pointed a crooked finger at her. Janine started to argue as the old woman started to turn away but the woman just hissed, "You are not the only one who will lose a loved one; you are not the only one who stands to lose her most cherished. It must be done." Janine was in shock she watched the willowy old woman hobble down the side walk, the clicking of her cane on the concrete was enough to haunt your dreams and make you sleep with one eye open for the rest of your life, but Janine knew the old woman was right.

"Wait, Millie! Okay, I will call the girls over for dinner this weekend and we will tell them and you can perform you little witch, blessing thingy." Janine called to the old woman. The old woman nodded her approval and started to climb into the cab. As the cab began to pull away Janine could hear Millie shout expletives at the driver and demand to be taken back to her home. For such a frail looking woman she was tough. Cold chills ran down Janine's spine as she watched the haggish, wispy looking woman watch her from the taxi cab.

Janine walked around her little house until she stood below the entrance to the attic, although attic wouldn't technically be right since it was actually called a crawl space. With a sigh, Janine pulled the string to open the hatch and slide the steps down. As if the creepy dark hole wasn't scary enough, a cold breeze hit her face; the breath of death itself seemed to be released from that God forsaken hole in the ceiling. Janine took a deep breath and headed up the steps to get a carved wooden box that she had refused to even think about let alone look at. There wasn't enough room to walk but that didn't matter all she had to do was lean far enough to the right of the hatch and dig under the insulation. If I didn't love those girls so much, I swear I would have taken these secrets to my grave, she thought too herself, as she wiggled out of the hatch and back to the main floor.

She took the briefcase to the kitchen and dropped on the table intentionally. The dusty old thing gave her the creeps even if she was the one that put all its contents together so that she could tell the girls and prove to them that, neither she nor Tia's mom was crazy. Janine sat at the kitchen table glancing back and forth from the brief case to the telephone, trying to get the nerve to make the phone call.

Janine shuddered at thought putting her granddaughter Krysta and her great niece Tia in danger, she couldn't be responsible for Nadia's well being and safety, she just couldn't; it would be too much for her to handle. She raised Tia and Krysta after their parents passed away and Nadia was just a sweet little girl who loved to play with Tia and Krysta. Janine knew their bond would keep them safe, but still it was hard. Millie was right though, she could not deny the omens and the signs that all the girls showed.

Janine drew in a deep breath, picked up the phone and dialed Krysta's number. The phone rang a few times and Janine was relieved for some reason when she thought that she could get away with leaving a message. Her hopes were crashed, when Krysta's cheery voice answered, "Hey Grandma what's going on?" Janine couldn't help but smile at her granddaughter's never waning positivity.

"I need you girls to come to dinner this Saturday...is that okay, it's really important." Janine replied to Krysta's question trying to not to sound suspicious or ominous. "Of course Grandma we will be there around six is that okay?" Krysta's voice sounded excited and joyful. Janine just hoped that her own voice would not betray her as she gave Krysta her affirmation.

Janine prayed to any and all gods who might hear her to give her strength. So that she could tell the girls about the horrors that awaited them. She dreaded the truth and the prophecies but the girls had to be told about their destinies and possibly their fates. She dreaded giving the girls their inheritances but it was time. She glared at the briefcase, as she contemplated how to tell them. That tattered, old and ugly briefcase was her curse and her burden, she despised everything it held within and everything it meant. The memories surrounding it haunted her every night with nightmares of Tia's mom screaming, while she writhed in pain.
Chapter 11: Disarming

Grinder watched horror as the magnificent wolf contorted in unnatural positions. It snarled and growled and howled in pain it was the most horrific sound she had ever heard. It scared and saddened her at the same time. Grinder had never actually seen any of these spells work, she thought it would be quicker and a lot painless to force a being to shift. She watched from behind the kitchen counter, her knuckles were turning white from clutching a .45 caliber handgun so tight. She knew her snooping would get her into trouble sooner or later and but tonight was not that night.

The wolf, in its mutated half human, half wolf form let out one last guttural howl then collapsed on the floor seemingly lifeless for a brief moment. Then without warning it jumped up and dived behind a wall and shouted, "Who the hell is my house? Show yourself now!"

Grinder was sure she recognized the voice, but she needed a better look. She slowly and cautiously she walked around the corner. But before she could see anything a large hand had a firm grasp on her neck which was even more firmly against a wall that was in whole another room. "AAAAAHHHH Alex!" she squealed, "It's me Grinder" it was all she could get out with what little air she had left in her lungs.

Grinder stared Alex down, his eyes were an eerie shade of red, and they were so frightening that she almost lost concentration. Alex stared back rumbling, he leaned in toward her neck and smelled. He then brought his head back to so that he was again staring into her eyes. He slowly lowered her down to the floor. In that very instant it was almost as if he finally became aware of everything, he shook the haze out of his head, "Grinder, what are you doing here? What did you do to me?"

She was rubbing the marks on her neck when asked her, "I..uh..OHHHH eeeww puts some clothes on first then I will explain everything."
Chapter 12: A New Lead.

Even after the shower and fresh clothes, Alex's eyes were still an eerie shade of red from Grinder's disarming spell. Whatever she made that thing out had a strange effect on the beast within, his wolf spirit, as well. His wolf was edgy and restless. Alex took a few deep breaths and headed to the main room to see why and what brought Grinder out of her fortress of technology and away from Bouncer's protection.

Alex heard the timid voice before he saw the slumped figure on the couch. "I am sorry about that, I didn't know how the disarming spell would affect a wolf."

"It's okay, but why are you here? What happened" Alex was genuinely concerned but the effects of the spell were still making it hard for him to focus and exude real emotion. Alex sat on the couch next to her. Grinder told Alex everything, the weird voice, the death of bouncer and her transport to his house and even the traps she set out for the voice.

"This voice, you heard, are you sure that it wasn't female? " Alex asked.

"Uh... No and I didn't stick around to find out. Anything that can get past bouncer and kill him is a nasty critter."

"Why is that?"

"Because, Bouncer is, was, kind of like Frankenstein's Monster, he was a little of everything, made by some witch to be the ultimate body guard. My father sort of adopted him and as far as we knew he was impervious to magic, and basically indestructible. I had Bouncer do some crazy stuff and come out of it without even a flinch of strain, were talking surviving a building crushing him, explosions and massive amounts of magical energy."

Alex processed what Grinder was telling him, it was beyond what he knew of magic and the supernatural, which explained why Portland was such an enigma to him. "Well it's good you're here, I need your help, and having you closer makes it much easier." The excitement of the night had finally hit Grinder, suddenly her energy was drained and all she could do was nod. Alex filled her in as best he could on his situation then left her to sleep.

The disarming spell took its toll on Alex as well, so much so that he didn't remember going to bed, and it seemed to be late in the morning when a giddy and girlish squeal woke him up. Alex walked into the living room to see Grinder surrounded by three laptops, typing feverously away. She had showered and fresh faced and didn't wear any makeup this morning. She actually looked normal, Alex on the other hand looked and felt as if he was recovering from a three-day bender.

Alex attempted to gain her attention through various methods but was thwarted by an irritated hush and a hand in his face. He gave up at this point and went into the kitchen, started the coffee pot and rummaged through the refrigerator for something to eat.

"YES! Hey Alex, I found something quick, get in here." Grinder yelled from the living room.

By this time Alex was mostly dressed, wide-eyed and ready to get back to his mission. "Did you find Aspen and Bane?" He asked trying to maintain his excitement, and relief at finding a new lead.

"No but, I was scouring the local police logs and reports and found some serious supernatural activity, specifically pertaining to shifters. I think there is a medical facility for supernatural and the supernaturally affected, because everyone of the victims were admitted to this facility instead of one of the many hospital that would have been closer to the scene of the crime."

"How do you know, may be the other hospitals were busy?" Alex asked. Grinder's response took him back. "Because this hospital is almost an hour outside of the city. I am going to do some hacking and hopefully find something, but if they do cater to the supernatural community then, well, they probably won't keep real records of that stuff. Maybe you should visit the place and see if they know of any recent births."

"That's a good idea, but first I gotta talk to Tia."
Chapter 13: The First Date

The hospital enigma was wearing heavily on Alex's mind but he had to talk to Tia if she was even part wolf she might know something, he didn't mind getting to know her better either. Alex stood at her door listening and smelling for a minute before he rang the doorbell. He could definitely smell the she-wolf among other things he couldn't identify. Tia wasn't the only non-human living or coming to this house.

Alex cleared his mind and rang the doorbell, a human would have heard the hushed giggles from the other side of the door, but he heard the whole conversation. "Nadia, oh my god Nadia he is here!" Alex could sense them peeking through the peephole and fought the urge not laugh. He heard one of them take a deep breath. Then the door opened. The two girls were giddy and held mischievous grins on their faces.

" Hi I'm Krysta and this is Nadia" the tall slender blonde introduced her and her ethnically ambiguous friend. " Nice to meet you, I am Alex, is Tia here?" he asked already knowing the answer to the question since he couldn't smell her scent. "No but she will be any minute now she just had to teach a private yoga lessen." Nadia chimed in.

They sat there for a long awkward minute when her scent caused his wolf spirit stir. It took all his power to rein in the wild desire to run to her. He could hear come in through the back door slowly and cautiously, he was sure she had caught his scent. When she reached the front room where they were all sitting she stopped dead in her tracks, and stared at Alex.

Tia could smell him when she walked in, she was still stunned nonetheless. His scent, his gorgeous smile, the dimples, she couldn't even move. His eyes were inviting and even though his lips weren't moving she could have sworn she could hear him speaking to her. He stood up and walked over to her. " I would like to take you to dinner tonight," He asked her very politely and gingerly. Tia was still stunned by his very presence that it took her a moment to gain her thoughts and answer him with a nod. " I would love to just give me a moment to freshen up and change." Tia darted down the hall to the bathroom, not wanting him to know just how excited she was.

After a quick shower, she began to rummage through her closet looking for something to wear, she wasn't much of a girly-girl, but in the end she found her favorite pair of jeans and black tank-top and a half jacket. She straightened her hair and put on some makeup. She began to put perfume on, but something instinctual told her not to. She laced up her favorite boots and walked out to the front room to see her friends giving her date the third-degree.

Krysta and Nadia were giggling, at Tia and Alex and on their way Krysta yelled, " Hey Tia don't forget about dinner with Grandma Janine, and don't do anything I wouldn't do."

Tia and Alex rushed out of her house quick trying to avoid any further embarrassment from her friends, and before she knew it they were loaded up in his truck with a picnic basket between them. "Where are we going and what are we doing?" she asked. "Well he said we are going to a little town called Sandy, have you heard of it? I found an amazing place to watch the sunset and have a picnic." She actually loved Sandy, maybe not the town itself but the natural surroundings. Many of her dreams had her running through the forest near there. " Yeah, like it up there a lot actually."

The sun was just setting when he finally parked the truck. "Well we are here. " Tia looked around, " I don't see the sunset" she said slyly. " I know, are you up for a hike?" Tia couldn't hold back her delight. " Of Course!" she exclaimed and they set off on foot for about a mile. As she followed Alex she could see the golden rays of sun peeking through the trees and then there it was a beautiful sunset full of color and drama setting over the Cascades, she could see the whole valley, in dramatic silhouettes and twinkling lights.

Alex walked up behind her while she was in awe and embraced her lovingly. " Incredible, huh?" he asked. " yeah its gorgeous" she answered. She turned and kissed Alex passionately. He carried her to the blanket he had laid out, next to the fire he had built, while she was taking in the whole scene. He responded so passionately she would have given into him completely if he hadn't stopped.

"What?" she asked with fear that she was moving too fast or was doing something embarrassing. Alex just grinned back at her. "Oh nothing, your eyes are just so beautiful and very definitely wolf." Her eyes had the predator glow and they reflected the flames of the fire within them.

"There you go again with that wolf shit again. I have no idea why you keep saying that because I am not a wolf. and what did you mean the other night when you said that you were wolf." Alex looked at her perplexed, " You seriously don't know anything about wolves?" he asked. Alex straightened up and ran his fingers through his hair while he thought about an explanation. He suddenly stood up and began taking his clothes off. Tia watched, intrigued and baffled by his behavior. He looked at her and gave her one of those arrogant grins, then shifted. Her human logic was surprised and a little afraid but something more primal and instinctual was comforted by his transformation. He sat in front of her , a wolf with his head cocked to one side like a puppy waiting for her response. He was beautiful shades of light gray with glowing gold eyes. Just as fast as he had turned to a wolf he turned back to human his human form.

"My wolf's spirit wants you, and calls to you" he said laying on the blanket next to her still unclothed but not in the least bit uncomfortable. " I know" Tia said in a soft whisper and continued, " So tell me more about the wolf stuff and why I feel the way I do about you."

"Well..." Alex began. " What you, we feel between each other is part of the bond that mates share. The stronger the bond the more compatible the mate and the more loyal the mates are to each other. When the bond is true and solid, the wolves become one in mind body and soul." Alex said stoking the side of her face.

"That's how you knew my name? isn't it" she asked leaning into his hand. "Yes, I have never felt a bond like this with any other mate" His answer was frank and honest. He stared at her for a moment he could sense the questions flitting through her head and the wonder in her eyes. Before she could outwardly ask he began to tell her the story of how wolf and man became one.

"My father says that thousands of years ago, long before man was civilized; wolves and men hunted each other. The wolves of the time were much larger in size and fang they were dire wolves. Large enough for a man to ride. One year the winds began to change and the days grew colder and colder. The people began to pray to their gods to help them after many sacrifices and prayers a wolf walked in to the village and guided them to safety into the caves of the wolves. It is said that the gods were pleased with how wolves and humans took care of each other and thus made them one in being."

Alex stopped his story to see Tia's reaction to it. "That's it! that doesn't even begin to answer all my questions" she playfully jabbed in the shoulder Alex feigned pain. " Of course not, but there are other things I'd rather be doing then giving a history lesson." He grinned and then flipped her on her back and kissed her. Tia gave in completely.
Chapter 14: The Portland Pack

For hours they sat in each other's embrace while he told her about being a wolf. He told her about a wolf's transformation and their abilities. All the while both Alex and Tia tried to ignore the primal urges that battle within their very souls. Their wolves were very restless, in fact the more restless the wolves got the more Alex's noticed that Tia's eyes glowed a very brilliant blue. Her scent was overwhelmingly enchanting and the bedroom-eyed look she gave him with the illuminating eyes made her irresistible . He was about to give in to his urges when a dangerous scent sent his wolf on alert.

Tia caught on just as quick and watched in awe as a group of ten or so wolves circled their little picnic spot. A ring of glowing yellow eyes stared at her, she could feel and hear their low rumbles and growls. Her wolf as she now knew it to be was restless and protective of her mate. A large wolf transformed into a man and smiled at her. By this time both Tia and Alex were standing up getting ready to fight. The muscular tattooed man, was tall and lean he had clear green eyes in his human form and an devilish look to him. He walked up to Tia and took in her scent from the base of her neck.

" I will have you for my own." he snarled at her and then switched his gaze to Alex, " Just as soon as I am done with him." He laughed and licked his fangs, for the first time Tia notice that Alex's fangs had descended from his gums as well. In that very instant both men shifted and pursued each other.

Tia watched on in awe as the beasts tore into each others' flesh and fur, causing blood and saliva to spray and splatter everywhere. She watched, amazed by the power in both wolves. The wolf that challenged Alex went for Alex's neck which invoked rage in Tia but before she could lunge into the fight someone grabbed her and held her back, while she struggled against the force she began to feel like she was going to lose control, something deep inside her was trying to push its way to the surface. Just before this other being gained total control, Alex had subdued the other wolf, and shifted into his human form.

Alex let out a ferocious growl that sent all the wolves, including the wolf holding Tia back, into an obedient submission. "Our species is being hunted and slowly dying off we can't not be killing each other of something trivial." The power and magnitude of his voice made the forest stir and the wolves cower, but not Tia she walked to his side and unconsciously exuded the same power. Tia's power and dominance turned Alex on as he laced his fingers into hers.

"Rayne, Look he is from a very old pack, he has the markings of the old ways." a very small and submissive female exclaimed. Alex could feel the whole group submit even the wolf he pinned down with his foot. Rayne the apparent alpha of this pack rose to his feet to see the markings, for himself. Rayne studied Alex's markings for a minute, then bowed in submission. "I have lost to you, alpha I submit my reign and pack to you." Rayne's words sounded as respectful as any oath sworn.

Alex nodded his approval then said, "That is not necessary, but I could probably use your help, and would appreciate and alliance, so to speak."

"We are based out of a clubhouse on Holgate in Portland. You and your mate are welcome anytime." Rayne responded with genuine sincerity.

"I thought I smelled a pack around there but then I lost the scent."

"We have a witch who helps us with binding spells since the last police raid almost outed us." Rayne answered Alex. _That explains a lot._ Alex thought to himself. "Hey baby, I hate to cut our date short...but I need to make an appearance at this clubhouse." Alex said to Tia with trepidation, he didn't want her to be upset and the last thing he wanted was to risk any chance at losing.

"Are you kidding lets go this is so...so...amazing." The whole group laughed as Tia's amazement had suddenly animated her features. "I always wanted to go to that clubhouse. I never knew they were wolves." Tia finally took in a deep breath and stopped when she realized everyone was watching her. Alex was so enthralled by this side of Tia he could help imagining what she was like in other ways. He smiled at his thoughts. Imagining them in bed, her dominance over him excited him, he couldn't wait.

No sooner had this little dream flitted through his head, Tia's hole demeanor shifted from excitement to embarrassment. She looked at him inquisitively. Her cheeks were a little flushed and he could see that she was hoping for an explanation from him. If she really saw what he what he was thinking than that was a sign of the Sacred Bond.

Rayne interrupted their moment. " Hey, we will meet you there, brother." Rayne turned to his pack and howled, shifted and ran into the forest.
Chapter 15: Exotic Energy

Krysta began to climb the pole as the music began. She was the best at the pole, and she had the best moves. The heavy bass beat of the music drowned out the wolf calls and whistles making her feel like she was the only one in the club. Krysta was gorgeous with long wavy hair and green eyes, her body was neither thin nor voluptuous but very supple. Her super high and clear platform shoes accentuated her long shapely leg and buttocks.

When she got to the top, she hooked her knee around the pole let her hands fall to her sides and her back arch. Then she dropped. Then she let her body pick up momentum as she descended. The adrenaline mixed with the collective gasp of the audience thrilled her. The adrenaline of knowing she could fall at any minute was exhilarating, but she was too good to fall. She tightened her grip on the pole not six inches from the ground. Krysta always received a standing ovation for that move and of course major tips.

Krysta lowered herself to the stage floor, rolled around onto her back. She tangled her legs and arms in the laces that hung from the hips of her hot pink panties that glowed in the black light. When a man sitting in front of her tossed her some cash she tugged on the laces and rolled out of the panties. with another flick of her wrist she was out of her top. She danced slow and rhythmic using her hands to draw his attention to where ever she wanted his attention to go. She was a seductress, she was good at it, and she loved it.

Krysta finished her sexy stage show and began to move through the crowd. Teasing and flirting with all the men. The energy of this club made her feel so alive. She thrived off the heavy bass and the flashing music. Krysta was different type of exotic dancer, in that she couldn't imagine doing anything else with her life. Tia and Nadia didn't understand but they supported her. She looked around the club looking for potential clients. The club was an extremely large club but it was well known and she was one of the premier dancers. It was dark, but the stage was illuminated by colorful lighting and black lights even the floor lit up if the dancer wanted it.

Krysta continued to weave through the crowd, until she made it to the back. In his usual corner was the middle-aged man that was one of Krysta's regular clients and one of her favorites. He gave her is trademark. "your mine tonight" grin. The man held up a fifty dollar bill for a private lap dance. Krysta grinned grabbed the money and straddled him. "How is my favorite dance partner tonight?" Krysta asked, with a hint of moan. The man moaned with desire as she gyrated on his lap. He kept his arms spread out across the back of the bench. Krysta glided her fingers across his tattooed arms as she stood up and turned around to show him all of her assets. Krysta then bent down and came up from between his legs, slowly rising until she was eye to him with him.

She was really attracted to him, and if he wasn't a client she would explored the possibility of a relationship with him. But she had a strict no client policy. She leaned in like she was going to kiss him then pulled away, he groaned and grinned. Krysta held on to his shoulder and was about to end their dance when some kind energy coursed through her. The energy was cold and burned at the same time she could feel it travel to every inch of her body. It was almost orgasmic. When it was done traveling through her, she took a deep breath and let out a little laugh of pleasure. "That was amazing, you are so beautiful" said her dance partner, his voice was breathy and his eyes were half lidded, like he just spent the night in passion. He gave her some more cash. Tucked into the folded bills was a folded napkin with note that had his name and phone number scribbled on it.

Krysta took the cash gratefully and headed into the dressing room for a break and a wardrobe change. Krysta went rifling through the suit case that she used, since there wasn't any storage in the dressing room. She still couldn't shake what happened between her and Rayne. She decided on a "little school-girl outfit" and headed out the back for a smoke.

Krysta sat in a corner hoping nobody would see her, she took a long drag from her cigarette, closed her eyes and reflected on the strange energy that was still running through her veins. She felt like she could do anything; she felt stronger. She was just about to take another drag, when she heard someone laughing.

The laugh was neither distinctively male nor female. It seemed to come from every direction, it echoed off the walls of building. Then there was a skittering sound, like hundreds of rats running around. Krysta looked around panicked and yelled into the night, "Who's there, stay away, I will call security!" It didn't work, the laughter was louder and closer now. An eerie gray mist started forming around her, the skittering got louder and closer. She began to stomp her feet at whatever was under the fog hoping to stop the critters that might be trying to crawl up her favorite clear, platform shoes.

Krysta heard a fight breaking out in the parking lot, she was about to scream for help when the fog receded faster than it came, as if the fight scared it off. One of the men came running to help her. It was Rayne. "Did...did you see that." Krysta stuttered through her words. "No, what did you see? are you okay?" he asked, helping her up. Krysta waved him off and started to walk back inside, "Hey stay there I will be back in a sec, okay." She yelled at Rayne.

Minutes later, Krysta returned to the parking lot with her suit case in tow, and dressed in jeans and a t-shirt. " So why did you want me to hang around for?" Rayne asked. Krysta grinned pushed him against her car and kissed him. It felt so amazing the same energy began to flow through her only much more intense. She wanted more. She pushed into him more urging him on. Rayne lifted her up, spun her around and pinned her against the car. Krysta was fumbling with his belt when she felt is posture change. She pulled back to look at him, but when she did, he fell to the ground.

"Oh shit, Oh shit" she yelled aloud, while checking his pulse. He was okay but just, Not knowing what else to do she got in her car and sped out of the parking lot leaving him there.
Chapter 16: Alone

With Krysta working and Tia on a date Nadia decided to stay in and watch a movie. She invited Danny over to join, though he had not yet arrived. She nestled into the couch with a cup of herbal tea and began to flick through the television channels trying to find something to watch while she waited for her always fashionably late friend.

It had been over an hour since she heard from Danny. The sun had already set when she tried calling and texting him but received no response from either method. Nadia was more annoyed than worried, it wasn't abnormal for Danny to change his mind, he was really spontaneous like that but there was something making her nervous.

She walked through the small three bedroom house checking on things and trying to keep herself busy. She had just finished making another cup of tea when she heard the skittering. It was like mice or bugs were running all over the place but she didn't see anything. The skittering gave her the chills. She decided it must have been a squirrel or something on the roof. She was in the middle of convincing herself, when the laughter rang through the house. It was everywhere and nowhere at the same time.

Nadia ran to her room and grabbed the necklace her grandmother gave her slipped it on and grasped it tight. She could feel the impression of the symbol dig into the palm of her hand. She began to chant the cleansing chant her grandmother used. The laughter got louder and closer, then the voice gagged and all the apparitions disappeared. Frantic and unnerved Nadia began trying to contact her friends. When no one answered she grabbed her coat and ran to her car. She was about to pull out of the drive way when she noticed that Alex's truck was parked at his house, she ran next door hoping to find someone home.
Chapter 17: The Clubhouse

Tia was enthralled with all that had happened on her date and especially entranced by her date. She sat in the biker clubhouse listening to all the stories, and taking in all the scene. The clubhouse was really a house that had bar in it. From the outside it didn't look like much, just an old mistreated house surrounded with bikes and bikers. The inside was crudely decorated with hijacked road signs, posters of naked women and Christmas lights. It was kind of gross and seedy but she loved it.

She watched her mate from across the bar meeting members of the pack, greeting them heartily but with dominance. She watched as Rayne made a hasty exit. Some of the bikers were making fun of him for having to meet his girlfriend. Tia was thoroughly content being in this clubhouse surrounded by these people she felt like she belonged, but mostly she felt she belonged in Alex's arms. Tia made up her mind and walked over and put her arms around his waist. Alex looked over and winked at her and leaned in for a kiss. "Let's get outta here." his whisper sent chills down her spine, his grin made her melt.

It wasn't long before they were in his truck headed home. They couldn't get their hands off of each other. When they reached their block, Alex wasted no time, he pulled her toward his house.

They were already in a passionate kiss before the made it to the front door. Tia fumbled with her keys while Alex fumbled with her shirt and kissed her neck. He made it so hard for her to concentrate. Once through the door, Alex picked her up and started carrying her through the hallway and to his bed.
Chapter 18: Meet Grinder

Grinder sat amidst her island of computers, one screen still on Bouncer's lifeless body, the other screen on a database of records, and the other on her own database of her father's contacts and business transactions. Grinder heard Alex and his date come home, she was happy for them but happier she had head phones and happier still that she was in the living room where she didn't have to see or hear anything.

She had been staring at the databases for hours, trying to find a connection between her father and the hospital. She had been so focused she didn't even noticed when three men stepped over Bouncer's body, on the security feed. A flash on the screen immediately brought her attention to that screen.

A man with a scarred face and sharp features looked directly into the camera, "Hey Grinder...not so tough without your body guard are ya?" He snarled. Grinder watched in horror as one of the men began typing away at her main computer and the other began dousing her files with what she assumed was gasoline. " You see that?" that man pointed at his partner at the computer, " He is hacking you right now, we are making sure we get what you owe you no good piece of shit." Grinder panicked and began typing hastily.

She put up firewall after firewall trying to buy time while she got what she could transferred to laptop and to another bank account that she hoped they didn't know about. She was frantically typing and unplugging devices "Oh God No" she yelled frustrated. Tia and Alex came running out to see what was going, before they could ask there was a knock at the door.

Tia saw the panic in Nadia's eyes and face. "Oh my god, Nadia are you okay?" Tia asked Nadia as she ran to her and embraced her. Tia was consoling Nadia while she explained what freaked her out. Okay so what freaked Grinder out? Tia heard Alex's voice in her mind; it was clearer than ever before. Alex listened Nadia with sincerity and concern. He was trying to put it all together when Krysta burst through the door, she too was panicked, though she held a lot of it in. she was too afraid to tell anyone what really happened.

It took a few hours of panic driven rambling, and a couple cocktails before things began to calm down. After a few moments of silence Grinder was blurted out: "So we have bug-laugh-killer-thingy after all of us and I am about to be ruined by a low-life-bottom feeding street-gang! Great just what I need!"

"Who is this chick?" Krysta asked as if she just noticed grinder in the room.

"Her name is Grinder, she is an associate of mine." Alex offered hoping that answer would suffice. Krysta wasn't at all satisfied with that answer and she boiled close to a full on rage when she yelled out to the room. "WILL SOMEONE TELL ME WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON HERE?"

Alex stepped forward and looked into Krysta's eyes he emitted a soft sound that was reminiscent to the rumble that dogs do. Krysta suddenly relaxed and sat down as if commanded to. "Wow, I need to learn how to do that. " Nadia gasped.

"Everyone will stay here tonight and get some rest will figure all this out in the morning. Okay?" Alex's commanding voice made everyone in the room stop and listen to him. Without any argument everyone began to get ready for bed. Krysta and Nadia found a spare bedroom, Grinder camped out on her usual spot on the living room couch. Tia and Alex retreated to Alex's bedroom.

Tia sat on the corner of the bed thinking about all that had happened in the last week. Alex was rooting in a drawer for a spare tee shirt for Tia to wear to bed. Suddenly thoughts came rushing through her mind and a hundred questions followed. "Alex, you never told me why you moved here or where you're from. Who is Grinder? And do you know what any of this means?" she asked suddenly wary of Alex.

Alex could see that her wolf was on alert its human rationale registered all the unknowns. "Baby, I am sorry. I was so caught up in what we have. I should have told you of my mission. Hell, it I didn't even stop to think that you might be able to help me." Tia nodded her understanding as he continued.

"My pack is in danger. A Phoenix or something wants a member of a my pack, a pup. I was sent here to find the pup and her family. And Grinder she is funding the is whole venture but I am not sure what she is all about, but I am pretty sure her family legacy, so-to-speak, isn't exactly legal." Alex sighed and looked for any sign of reassurance from Tia. "I know you are telling the truth mostly because your thoughts are not contradicting your story."

That was the end of their conversation. The rest of the night went by peacefully though Alex didn't sleep much the wolf within was uneasy and alert. With any luck tomorrow I will be to find some answers so that I can protect her.
Chapter 19: Piecing It Together

"Okay let me get this straight. Tia and Alex can turn into wolves, Grinder is a Goth chick and mob boss and something or someone is after us. Why?!" Krysta was once again ranting although to no one in particular. _What a way to start the morning._ Alex thought to himself he heard Tia chuckle and respond psychically, _Well what you expect it is a lot to take in and after she gets out of her system she'll be fine._ The group was just finishing scouring the girls' house looking for any evidence of what that thing was and what it wanted, and laying down a few supernatural booby traps. Pictures were taken of the walls that was all that was missing from the three bedroom bungalow house.

"What would _it_ want with photographs?" Nadia asked bewildered. Grinder who had been chanting and marking the front doorway with a disarming and trapping spell, answered; " Photographs can be used as representations or payment (depending on the personal value) in a lot magic."

"So it has a personal vendetta against us? Why?" Tia asked.

"Well that is one of the things Grinder and I will be working on today, the other is trying to figure who is after Grinder. I will have to look for the pup later. Immediate safety takes priority at this point." Alex's answer was riddled with emotions and resolve.

" We had better get to dinner, unless we want to get lectured on the 'value of being punctual'." Krysta said jingling her car keys. As the girls began to leave Alex grabbed Tia and pulled her into a kiss. "I love you, be safe." he said looking into her eyes which were glowing. "You too." she replied a little out of breath. And with that the girls were gone.

Alex turned to Grinder, "So start talking..."

"About what?" she replied sheepishly and obviously trying to dodge the whole conversation.

"What the hell is going on with you?"

"Fine! As mentioned my dad is kind of like a mob boss and some hacked my whole system took most of my money if not all of it and is looking for me, or well my dad. Happy now." she huffed at Alex.

"No I am not happy, what kind of trouble did you get into when _you_ were snooping around the other night?" Alex was demanding and using all the Alpha he could with her.

" I kind of... well... fine, I took their money, I found out in my dad's private ledger that they owed him a lot of money so I made and EFT into one of my accounts. They caught me hacking in, I hurried and tried to cover my digital trail but it was too late, and since bouncer isn't their they physically broke in and finished their job. So basically I am broke and we have maybe two days until they find us. "

Alex growled in frustration. "Come on we got to check this hospital out and find a place to lay low." He stormed out of the house to his truck.
Chapter 20: Grimm Expectations

The drive to the hospital was long and quiet, Alex was almost brooding the whole way and Grinder was lost in thought. Grinder thought about asking Alex what his plan was but it was obvious that he wasn't in a talking mood, instead she focused on her own problems like how to get money, where to hide and which gang was after and why. Her mind was racing so much she didn't even notice that Alex had pulled off the highway and started down an unnoticeable road. The road was long and twisty, went downhill into a gully. When she looked down in to the gully Grinder could see the rooftop of a building she assumed was the hospital.

Alex pulled his old truck into the parking lot, he parked so that he could see the whole building from within the cab. He studied that building. The building was made of red brick and looked every bit like a hospital except it was adorned with really archaic and gruesome looking gargoyles. The building itself was only two stories high but the gargoyles perched at the top made it seem ominously taller than it was. The lawns were well kept and somewhere in the background he heard the trickling sound of water from what he assumed was a fountain.

"The Great Rose Area Institute of Medicine and Mental health. G.R.I.M.M. You think it's coincidence, Alex?" Grinder asked with a hint of sarcasm. Alex smiled at her and headed into the main doors to the receptionist. The reception area was very open and looked very much like any other hospital, except there wasn't anyone waiting. At a large desk sat a middle aged woman steadfastly typing at a computer terminal. when Alex approached the small framed woman looked up from her desk, studied them for a moment then said, "Welcome to GRIMM medicine, How can I help you today?"

"We need to see a doctor."

"Okay here is some paperwork to fill out, please be sure to indicate your species and any allergies, spells, potions or talismans that may be causing your afflictions. This paper here, is for payment of services rendered please indicate how you intend to pay and sign at the bottom."

"No, we need to talk to someone who could help us find a member of my pack, who is in charge of the records or something." At Alex was frustrated and hadn't intended to go alpha on her but he did nonetheless. This caused her to call someone, and after a short phone conversation she politely directed them to sit and wait for the hospital director.

The hospital director was an attractive woman she was tall and slender, strawberry blonde hair and soft green eyes, she offered a hand to Alex and Grinder and asked them of their business.

"We are looking for a member of my pack, she would be of Native American and European descent, and she would of been pregnant recently." Grinder watched the exchange between the two and noticed that the woman was looking directly into Alex's eyes, searching for something. "Ahhh I see, I remember her, though to my knowledge she wasn't pregnant at least not when she was admitted. Leslie please send the file, WF897J, to my office." She lead the them down an alternate hallway.

"The woman or wolf you were looking for was admitted for delusions and hallucinations. Supernaturally, of course there were evil forces after her. We couldn't do much but lock her in isolation and put as much magically restraint and protection against her as we could. My name is Angela by the way Angela Grimm." The woman stopped at a door that had a keypad and card reader, she swiped her card and punched a few numbers, air released and the door opened. "I must warn you to not let the patient freak you out some of them are, well, see for yourself."

The hallway was lined with small rooms with glass doors, behind the doors were patients that would seem insane to a normal human but someone like a wolf, it was much different. Alex stopped and watched a man swat the air around him huddled in a corner, cussing the "Damned little blue buggers won't leave me alone." The further they went down the sterile white hallway the more he noticed people clawing boils and talking to themselves.

They turned a corner at the end of the hallway onto another but shorter hallway at the end of which was a door with the name of the doctor and some symbols inlaid into do it. The doctor read their minds and answered "Protection Spells." She lead them into an esteemed looking office with a big desk. On the desk, sat the file that she sent for. She handed it gingerly to Alex, and further reading his mind said, "I assure you she is the one you were looking for." she pointed to her forehead emphasizing her meaning, then she asked, "What do you want with her I know that your intentions are good...but for what reason do you seek her."

Alex looked at the doctor for a minute then replied, " You can't see the reason for yourself?"

"Well the future is reliant on an individual's decisions, since you don't seem to have made up your mind I would like to know your reasons?" she answered in a professional tone. "Well the 'evil forces' you spoke of wants her baby though we are not sure why, so I was charged with finding her and her pup and return to our pack home for safety."

"Hmmm well okay, you can have her file if it will help locate the baby or child as it were." she was prepared to help in any way she could, but she felt lingering questions in her guests minds, and she continued, "If she had a baby it was before she was committed to this facility; she died here."

That put a whole new perspective on the situation for Alex and Grinder; it meant that they could be looking for a much older child, which meant it could be in foster care or anywhere really. It also meant that the child was with someone who could protect her supernaturally or something else was blocking its powers. Alex took the file from her and stood up, she understood and lead back to the front of the hospital.

Alex all but ran through the parking lot, jumped in his truck and slammed the door shut. "Jeeze, Alex" Grinder said half out of breath when she finally made it to the truck. "I am sorry, I am just a little frustrated and that place creeped me out." He apologized. His cell phone rang as he drove out of the parking lot.
Chapter 21: A Restless Pack

John Longclaw, leaned against the railing of the second story balcony of his lodge. The lodge sat at the edge of cliff overlooking a raging, wild river. The sound of rushing rapids soothed his human soul and put his wolf at ease. Her evil tendrils of magic still permeated the area, it made his whole pack feel as if someone was watching them all the time. It made their wolves restless and a restless pack was not a safe one. He hoped that the unease was just a side effect of her presence and that she wasn't really watching.

Even Mother Earth was raging against the evil. The trees swayed in the gust of wind as if the Mother herself were shaking her fists. The Mother's tears filled the river and made the waters run deep and swift. John could hear the Mother' wails in the howling wind that rushed through the hollows of the mountains and see her unleash her anger in bolts of lightning and rumbles of thunder.

John was counting the wolves that were playing down below, remembering how safe this place usually is, that was the way it was meant to be. He acquired the land legitimately when it was known as the Oregon Territory, but his people had been here much longer, centuries longer. Until the pioneers began settling on his land no one knew of his kind. The pioneers were ignorant and fearful of the new or different so he cut a deal with the government and this little unknown reservation was his and home to any of his kind that might need sanctuary.

"Tsk, Tsk, little wolfie did you really think that I would send the alpha and not keep an eye on you?" The voice was everywhere and nowhere, condescending and seething with sarcasm and anger. It was definitely her.

"What do you want with that pup?" John yelled to the sky.

"You know as well as I, that she is a dire wolf. I need her pure power and magic to complete me."

"What would a Phoenix want with a wolf anyways?"

"Foolish wolf, I am not Phoenix, I merely control its soul, its essence. Can you imagine the sorcery and power it took to control the soul of Phoenix?" Her voice echoed around John, though no one else seemed to hear her. John made up his mind, developed a plan but he was going to have set it in motion without the sorceress finding out. "Fire and Ice wolf, could you just imaging what I "could do with such pure, ancient power? Why don't you become my ally and you could be just as powerful?" she had cold and maniacal laugh.

John ran into the lodge, into his magically protected office and called Alex. "Alex you must kill the baby its soul must move, It isn't a phoenix it's a powerful sorceress, who is commanding souls. The pack will be on the move tonight. I fear it isn't safe here any longer." John said to Alex's voice mail. John walked out to the front of the lodge. He ripped off his shirt and howled for his pack and led the way to the north.
Chapter 22: The Awakening

Alex was out learning about the Portland pack he inherited while Tia, Krysta, Nadia and even Danny sat around Janine's kitchen table. Janine was on edge as she cleaned up the dinner dishes, Millie sat at the end of the oblong table, glancing from girl to the next. The deep crevices the lined her face showed years of hardship, and they were much more defined lately.

Janine sat at the table, at first all she did was look sadly at the girls, then she placed an ornately hand-carved box on the table; she took in a deep breath and was about to speak, but what was interrupted by Millie. Millie had gotten up from the table and had stood behind Nadia. "We have to complete the blessing then transfer powers first, if not I fear something terrible will reach us before it's too late." her haggish voice cut through the silence. Everyone nodded in agreement though none of them understood what was going on.

"Nadia, my dear granddaughter, please stand." Nadia did as she was told, she knew about the blessing but didn't see why it was important to be done tonight. Millie began praying in an old language and circling around Nadia. She was waving bundles of herbs, that smelled of cloves and cinnamon and other herbs. Millie explained the mean of each step after it was completed. " The prayer is to call upon our ancestors, so that they may guide Nadia and the herbs and the spell will cleanse and seal the bond between healer and the elements. When you feel the bond engage you need to begin to recite a binding spell that will protect you and your friends." Millie handed Nadia piece of paper with the spell on it. Then Millie began chanting the spell.

The more Millie chanted the stranger the atmosphere in the room became. Lights were flickering and a hint of a purple smoke seemed to encircle Millie and Nadia. Krysta and Tia looked at each other in amazement. The house began to rattle and Janine gasped, "Something's wrong." Tia could see Janine looking around frantically. Janine's gazed stopped and she shrieked then yelled at Millie, "Millie, the binding spell, hurry! I think she found us!" Tia and Krysta turned their attention to where Janine was staring, Danny. Danny was laughing maniacally, he thrust his arms out towards Millie and Nadia and the ominous skittering sound came again.

"She will be so happy when I deliver that wretched she-wolf. It has taken me years to find you." he said to Tia. "Your witch friends kept you hidden so well _she_ didn't believe me." Tia was confused. Millie turned her attention to Danny, Janine joined her and held her hands and together they chanted louder and louder. Danny began to react violently as if in pain, which enraged him. Light began pour out of Danny and he shrieked so high pitched that Tia and Krysta cringed in pain. Tia yelled for Alex, it was the only thing she could think of doing at the moment.

On the other end of the room Nadia, Millie and Janine were chanting in unison with all their might. When Danny's body began to decimate and float away. Janine let her grasp go and grabbed the carved box on the table and handed it to Nadia. " RUN. ALL THE ANSWERS ARE IN THIS BOX!" Nadia looked at her friends, who nodded their understanding, and ran out to Krysta's car with her friends close behind.

"Holy crap what happened in there?" Krysta was once again freaking out but with good reason.

"I thought Danny was our friend..."Nadia said looking blankly at the box Janine had given her.

"Hey something's wrong..." Tia said as she pulled up to their house. All the lights were on, Tia could see through the window that pictures were pulled from the wall and she could hear something or someone inside. Nadia began calling 9-1-1 on her cell. Tia continued to drive. She went around the block and parked a ways from Alex's house and waited for him.

"They've gotta be human otherwise they wouldn't make it past the supernatural booby traps." Tia pointed out. " We are going to wait here until Alex or the authorities arrive." Her friends didn't argue. The three sat in the car waiting, not sure what else to do.
Chapter 23: The Real Truth

Alex was so frustrated that he didn't realize how reckless he was driving. Grinder was holding on for dear life as he swerved in and out of traffic, ran a couple red lights and sped the whole way, Alex was focused on one thing; getting to Tia. He could care less about the pup.

When they finally got to their street Alex's wolf senses picked up strange noises and smells. He got out of his truck and ran to Tia's house. The house was empty but ransacked. Couch cushions were thrown and ripped, broken lamps, dishes, and photo frames littered the floor. He could smell the anger in the men that did this. He was looking for any sign that the girls were in the house when it happened when heard Tia's voice louder and clearer than ever telepathically. Alex had other mates but the bond he had with them was never as strong as it was with Tia, but then he never loved someone so much either.

_Alex we are parked around the corner. Is it safe?_ he was relieved to hear her voice, he ran to her. The raged he felt coupled with his desire to protect her made him restless and anxious. He saw Tia's Honda parked across from his house. Tia had flashed the lights to let him know that they were still there and okay.

When Alex stood in front of the car Nadia and Krysta were surprised to see Alex's eyes glow, yellow like a wild life predator, like a wolf. "Wow. Did anyone else see his eyes?" Nadia asked no one in particular. "He's a wolf." Tia answered nonchalantly. Alex was tapping at the window. Tia rolled the window down.

"I am so glad you came, some weird shit has been going on tonight." Tia exclaimed

"We don't have much time, we need to get out of here. Fast. Your house is safe grab a few things and meet back here in ten." Alex gave the order with authority and respect.

It didn't take long for them to regroup, each with a small bag of personal things. They stood at Tia's Jeep waiting for further instruction. Alex was packing the things in the Jeep without so much as a nod to the others. He had so much on his mind and he still needed to find a place for them to hide. "Okay, get in." he said gruffly. They all sat in the Jeep for moment thinking. "Where to?" Grinder asked.

Krysta gasped in revelation, "I have an idea, it's not much, but it might work for now. Head downtown." Krysta began texting on her cell phone as Tia began the drive downtown trying to take the fasted and most direct route. With a sigh and a beep Krysta finally said. "Okay I have someone waiting for us." Krysta broke the nervous silence of the car.
Chapter 24: The Portland Underground

After parking the car in an all night garage and walking a few blocks during the peak of Portland's infamous nightlife. Alex came to the conclusion that most of Portland must be ran by supernatural society especially since some many different creatures were comfortable and unafraid to come out in the open with no disguise. He could smell the perfume of succubae and sirens luring their victims and he could smell fresh blood, though the girls didn't seem to noticed.

Krysta's directions lead them to a hole-in-the wall bar. It was dark and stuffy the people inside were quiet and suspicious of the new comers. Krysta walked up to the bartender and hugged him comfortably. The bartender seemed to be in his early thirties he had curly black hair and a warm smile. "You seem different, Krysta...You seem.." He leaned in and closed his eyes and felt her energy. " Ahhh that is why you make a great dancer. How come you never told me you were a succubus?" he said almost mischievously.

Krysta wasn't sure how to respond to that question. She didn't know that she was anything besides human. "We don't have time Jake, we need to hide could we hide in your entrance to the tunnels just for tonight. I know. I know. Its haunted and there are rats and blah blah but we are desperate." Krysta said with a hint of begging in her voice.

Jake walked around to the rest of the group feeling their essences and energies as well. " Well since you are all ah _special..._ " he paused as he lingered at Tia for a moment then continued. "I will do you one better; follow me." The group followed him into the back store room.

When they were all in the store room, Jake secured the door and open a hatch in the floor. "I thought you said you were going to do better than the tunnels." Krysta replied rather snarky. "Oh I am just be patient." he answered her calmly. They were lead down a wooden, creaky stair case and into a cellar full of liquor and spirits. They walked all the way to the back to an opening in the wall.

"This is the tourist entrance to the underground tunnels. You guys will stay here in my... ahhh... supernatural panic room, if you will." Jake said before waving his hand in front of the brick wall and ushering them in. Once inside they were amazed to find a whole suite, furnished rather luxuriously and very comfortable.

"This place has some of the best supernatural security I could collect over the centuries. You will be safe here. Let me know if you need anything." Jake excused himself to attend to his bar. The suite was lush. with Two big fluffy couches, fully stocked kitchenette and spa quality bathroom and master bedroom with an on suite bathroom. The whole apartment was decorated soft beiges and browns but accented with opulent gold and crimsons that gave it a very rich and inviting feel.
Chapter 25: Revelations

"How do you know him, Krysta?" Alex asked. "From the club where I dance." she answered honestly. Alex was just trying to piece everything to together. The girls were taking turns getting cleaned up and trying to figure out how to open a peculiar wooden box, to no avail. "What about you, Alex. He said you were 'special' too. What are you?" Alex thought about for a minute then shrugged. "I am a wolf."

"What do you mean a wolf? And be honest whatever it is we got ourselves into, we are in it together, so I think its best we are all honest with each other." Nadia said to the whole group. "Baby, I think it will be better if you just show them." Tia said. Alex again shrugged and shifted.

"Holy shit!" both Krysta and Nadia said in unison. A minute later Alex shifted back into his human form and began putting his clothes back on. "Hey, I am still not sure I believe you, I think you should do it again." Alex was about to shift again when Tia and Nadia caught him. "DON'T" Tia said.

"Awwww are you jealous, Babe?" Alex asked with an air of cockiness to him.

"No, Krysta just wants to see you naked, she is cruel like that. In High School she talked a guy into taking his clothes off, then she took his clothes, ran and threw them away. Tia is just saving you from humiliation." Nadia answered. Grinder giggled. "Your next, Goth Chick. What's your story and your real name. Come on Grinder? Really?" Krysta asked.

"My name is Ashley Marie Fischel, or Quinton; depends on who you know. My dad changed our names a lot. Anyways I am the daughter of the..."

"You mean the Quinton Mob? You' re the daughter of Martel Quinton?" Alex asked surprised but the pieces were really starting to fit together. At least the part of how his father knew Grinder and what was going on with Grinder's finances. Grinder and Krysta were hitting it off pretty well. Grinder was telling Krysta all about being a Mob princess and Krysta was telling her all about being a dancer. Tia and Nadia were fiddling with the box at the kitchen counter.

Nadia stared at the ornate carvings of vines, and flowers, there was something so familiar about them something her grandmother had told her but she couldn't put her finger on it. She flipped the box over following a the vines. Suddenly Nadia saw it, it was so minute, she almost missed it. At the very bottom corner of the box the vines didn't match up. Nadia pushed the vines to meet up when the seam appeared. Pressurized air escaped the box as it opened. "Whoa." Tia gasped.

Inside they found an old spell book bound in leather and adorned with strange symbols and pictures of the elements. They also found a DVD and a leather bound journal, Tia recognized as her mother 's. Alex walked up behind and embraced Tia as she read the journal, he could feel her grief and sadness. The last item in the box was a letter addressed to all of them. Nadia read it aloud.
My Dear Girls,

If you are reading this then Millie and I have moved on from the physical realm to the spiritual. You first must know that your mother's entrusted Millie and I to take care of you and that we all love you very much. The second thing you need to know is that binding your powers and changing your identities was all to protect you from some very dangerous people. Each of you are very special and not human.

Krysta, you are a Succubus, you will feed of sexual energy and dream walk. That is the most that I know of you. Your mother was scared and alone when she gave you to me. Be careful, control your hunger and your dreams. Nadia, you will be a powerful witch, and Elemental to be exact. This is important to you and your friends. You have the power to bind and hide your friends and their powers as well as heal and fight if needed. Tia, you are a very special breed of wolf. I am not sure what but I know that ever since you and mother came to us for help strange things began happening. The last thing that your mother told us before her passing was that something very powerful and evil will always be looking for you.

Enclosed is all the things to help you learn and understand your individual histories and powers. Good Luck and know that I am always with you.

Love Always

Janine.

Alex looked at all the girls and noticed the tears in their eyes. Tia was clutching something in her hands. "Are you alright?" Alex took the pictures from her hands and held her close and tight. "Yeah actually I am fine it's just bringing back memories is all." Tia answered sighing. Look it's my mother, she said handing him the photo. Alex looked at the picture in disbelief. "This is your mother?" he asked. Tia nodded. Alex began to pace.

"Shit. you were here the whole time! You are the pup I was looking for...That I am ordered to kill."

