

THE VILLAGE CAFÉ

Published by Eraine Rivera at Smashwords

Copyright © 2013 by Eraine Rivera

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. Although this is a free book, it remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be reproduced, copied and distributed for commercial or non-commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy at Smashwords.com, where they can also discover other works by this author. Thank you for you support.

THE VILLAGE CAFE

Living in New York City you see your share of strange things, a guy with a bird on his shoulder, a snake charmer, a one man band or even a homeless person singing the praises of God every time someone gives them a quarter. Yep there are a lot of strange folks living here. But hey that's pretty much the norm living in the city. What I didn't expect to see was an underground world filled with creatures fighting a war that raged since the dawn of time. I was just a waitress at a café in the village a week ago but that all changed when Rick walked back into my life two days before Halloween.

"Devilynn, always a pleasure to see you," Rick said as he glided into my apartment and sat on my sofa. I could not take my eyes off of him as I sat down. Rick turned towards me, his dark blonde mane casting shadows over his face. He smiled as his eyes pierced into mine, making me shiver. Rick and I used to date before he went to Europe to study Art History for two years. He was a handsome guy when he left but when I opened that door and saw what he had become I didn't know whether to laugh or alert the authorities.

"So what did you come here for Rick?" I asked looking at his unusually pale skin.

"I am reopening my father's café for a new type of clientele and I want you to work as one of my waitresses." His blue eyes pierced into mine as his bony hand reached out to touch me. Rick's skin was ice cold and made me jump off the sofa.

"I don't think so Rick. Being a waitress doesn't pay enough to keep me in this apartment and in school. Your dad was real nice to me and that's why I stayed as long as I did but I'm getting another job. Thanks for stopping by though." I said calmly walking over to the door.

"I will pay you two hundred dollars for each story you document on my clientele." I stopped at the door and turned to Rick confused. Smiling Rick pulled out a black composition notebook and tossed it onto the sofa. It was my notebook filled with stories I wrote during my break or when business was slow. I thought I had lost it. "You are a writer and a good one at that. I have some interesting friends that would love to have their stories published under an alias."

"For a lousy two hundred, sorry find yourself another hack." I turned away from his creepy gaze again to open the door.

"I said I would pay you two hundred for each story you write. I did not yet discuss with you the details of your contract once these stories are published."

"So what kind of contract are you offering me?" I asked as I turned around and walked back to the sofa. Rick smiled.

"Well, you will receive thirty percent of all the royalties but the stories remain with Mortakie's publishing agency and cannot be reproduced." This all felt so wrong to me but I needed the money to finish school. I had worked too hard and long to just let it all slip away. So what if Rick seemed just a tad bit eccentric. Bottom line was I needed the money not to mention I had a soft spot for Rick even if he cheated on me before leaving to Europe.

"Sounds fair to me."

"Wonderful. Come with me." I followed Rick out of my village studio apartment and walked two blocks toward the café. The night air chilled me but not as much as the renovation of the café itself. It was transformed from bright and trendy to dark and satanic. Heavy red velvet drapes covered the windows and the huge mirror behind the counter. Small glass tables with wire stools replaced the big comfy couches and chairs. On each table was a large black candle and ashtrays galore of bones, bats, coffins and virgins being sacrificed. Shivering I turned to Rick, who was watching me with a hunger in his eyes.

"So what are these um...clients like? Are they the disgruntled youth that hang around St. Marks? Vampire wannabees? Satanic cults?" I said trying to play it cool. Rick let out a low raspy chuckle.

"No. They are all real. You should not be fooled by appearances. I assure you those vampire 'wannabees' are quite real and pose themselves that way to walk amongst the living. Why do you think you only see them after dark? But do not take my word for it, see for yourself on Saturday." Rick said as he walked into his office. I followed him in. The office was the only thing that was untouched. Rick walked behind the desk and opened the top left draw. Pulling out a black book he threw it on the desk.

"I trust you will read this and become acquainted with it before Halloween because that is when we open." I grabbed the book and looked at the title.

"Wolves, Witches and Vampires? It's a little early for April Fools Day, don't ya think?" Rick just stared at me blankly. I smiled and walked out of his office.

Halloween had arrived and I spent the day going over some details that were in the book Rick gave me. Despite its childish title the book was quite interesting. There was a knock at my door. Looking through the peephole I could see two girls dressed like they were going to an exotic funeral. Both were blond and busty with tight black corsets and long velvet skirts. Their faces were as pale as ghosts; thick eyeliner engulfed their eyes and crimson stained their lips. Opening the door I raised an eyebrow.

"Aren't you girls a little too old to be trick or treating?" The double mint twins laughed.

"Rick said you were funny." The blond on the left said in a high-pitched voice. "I am Rosella and this is my twin sister Miranda. Rick sent us to take you shopping for work clothes." Rosella said holding out her hand.

The three of us walked into a gothic boutique on 8th Street and St. Marks Place. Rosella and Miranda floated through the store pulling out corsets in several different colors and skirts of all types of material. Rosella handed me a dark red corset and black velvet skirt and motioned me into the changing room. When I finished dressing I looked in the mirror and laughed. Rosella opened the curtain and stepped in. She pulled make-up out of her velvet purse and went to work on my face as Miranda squeezed in with her and started working on my long curly red hair. They were finished in minutes and turned me around. They put their heads next to mine and I became the triplet of the duo.

"Absolutely gorgeous." Rosella gushed as she walked out of the changing room. Miranda handed me a pair of knee length leather boots. I put them on and almost toppled over from the 7-inch platform heels.

"These can't be comfortable to waitress in?"

"No but they look sexy on you, Devilynn." Miranda said. I regretted taking the job as I stepped out of the changing room. Miranda grabbed the bags and walked out of the store. Rosella came up behind me and placed a black velvet cloak around me.

"There, that should keep you warm during the winter. Oh, don't worry about the cost of the clothes. Rick has that covered and Miranda has you belongings in another bag." I shrugged as we left the store and headed for the café, which was completely decked out for Halloween with banners and black balloons. There were inflatable witches, ghosts and pumpkins hanging from the ceiling and fake cobwebs covered the counter and tables.

"You look enchanting my dear." Rick whispered in my ear as he removed my cloak. I jumped. Rick was decked out for Halloween himself. He had on a black frock, a white poet's blouse with lace cuffs and black leggings with black leather riding boots. His hair was pulled back into a low ponytail. He took hold of my hands and pulled me toward the counter.

"This is where you will work. Sarah and Thomas will handle all the orders at the counter while Rosella and Miranda will take the tables. You are to record everything that happens tonight. It will be a very special night." Rick handed me a large black notebook and a silver pen, then turned to open the doors.

The first hour was slow but by nine o'clock people started to enter the café. Rick was right; all sorts of monsters entered the café that night. I saw four Draculas, two werewolves, a few Michael Myers and even Little Boo Peep stopped by for a visit. All I could think was that no one was going to read this story. Around eleven a group of people entered the café. They were all dressed like they were going to a ball at Bela Lugosi's house.

Rick came out of his office and kissed the gloved hand of a tall man dressed in a tuxedo. The man nodded to Rick as he handed him his cane, cape and top hat. Rick motioned to a corner of the café. The man held out his arm to the woman on his right then turned to his left and held up his other arm. Both women smiled as they each took hold of him. "Who are those people?" I whispered to myself.

"That was Mortakie with his mother Helena and his love Eraina." Sarah said making me jump.

"So which is which?"

"Helena has the blond hair and Eraina the brown." Thomas finished. Nodding I looked at my watch, it was close to midnight. The last person to enter that night was a tall man about 6'3 with a long black leather trench coat. He was dressed all in black with brown spiky hair. His face was covered in a thick five o'clock shadow. His eyes swept over the café, examining everyone in it as he walked over to the counter. The man sat on one of the stools and kept looking around. I turned to got tell Rick but he was already standing next to me, staring at the man. The man didn't look at Rick; he was too busy staring at Mortakie with an immense hatred in his eyes. Rick grabbed my arm and led me into his office.

"Devilynn, remain here and do not open this door until I come for you." "Why?" Rick didn't answer me; he just left. I ran to the door but it was locked. I kicked the door in frustration and walked over to Rick's desk. Grabbing the metal chair I heaved it over to the corner where there was a vent. Mr. Morris used to look at the café through here to see if anyone was goofing off from time to time.

The man remained seated as he glanced at his watch every now and then. Mortakie and his crew stared at him. Their eyes were glowing red and mine must have been tired because I had to be imagining it. Rick was by the counter with Thomas, Sarah was by the door, Rosella was standing near the man and Miranda was by the far left corner. The bells from the nearby church rung, it was midnight. At first chime the man stood and opened his trench coat. By the second chime he had pulled out a crossbow and began shooting at random. One arrow pierced a woman's heart, another a man's leg and the third struck Sarah in the arm.

As the man reloaded Sarah locked the door, Rosella jumped behind the counter and pulled the dark drape away from the mirror. The man turned toward Mortakie's direction and took aim but Miranda was already in front of him. She hissed through clenched fangs as she snapped the crossbow in two. The man's eyes widened. Rick jumped over the counter and grabbed the man by his neck. I looked at the exposed mirror to see that there were only ten reflections in it. Two of those reflections were of the people the man had shot.

I watched as the humans tried to escape the café only to be feasted on by the vampires that entered with Mortakie. Flesh was torn and blood splattered across the walls. Bones crunched and necks fell limp, as they were broken. After the carnage of the innocence was over, the vampires turned their attention to the man Rick still held in his grasp. The vampires, including Rick, one by one turned into black shadows. They chased the man as he ran through the café looking for a way to escape. The shadows grabbed at him as they pierced parts of his body with their fangs. The blood dripped from his open wounds as he stopped in the middle of the café.

"All right you bastards! Kill me! That's what you want but I swear that there are others who will come and hunt you down. The slayers shall not stop till all of you are laid to rest forever!" The shadows turned into bats and attacked the man. Screeches from the bats muffled the screams of the man. The café was silent as all the bats returned to human form. There was only a white lifeless corpse where the man once stood. The vampires sat down at their tables. Sarah, Thomas, Rosella and Miranda dragged dead bodies over to various tables where the vampires continued to feast. The door opened and Rick walked in. I stared at him in disbelief and pure disgust; there was blood covering his face and it stained his white shirt. Rick walked over and raised his hand. Shaking I took it as he helped me off of the chair. He smiled at me; his blue eyes glinted with pleasure.

"Now do not look so shocked. I trust you read the book I gave you?" I nodded. "Well then, you must realize that this is how we live Devilynn? You should get back to writing this down while it is still fresh in your mind." Rick finished and left the office. It took me awhile to regain my composure. I was not too sure of what I saw or believed what I saw for that matter. I remained in the office till after two. In that time I wrote down everything as vividly as I pictured it.

"Are we finished yet? I am quite interested in reading your first draft." I looked up at Rick. The blood on his shirt was dry. I nodded and gathered my things. As I tried to leave the office Rick blocked my way.

"Please move."

"Now Devilynn, there is no need for hostility." Rick smiled. I looked into his eyes and began to feel faint. Rick closed the door and motioned me to sit.

"I rather stand."

"Again, there is no need for hostility."

"Try fear, Rick."

"What do you mean?"

"You and me used to be close before you left. I mean you wrote to me all the time and then you stopped. Now you come back as Dracula's son and...I mean what the hell was I looking at tonight? Was all this real or just a sick joke? What are you?"

"Sit. I owe you an explanation." Rick said as he put his hand on my shoulder. Reluctantly I sat and listened to Rick's year in England. He spent a lot of time at clubs, drinking and sleeping with many women. That's how he met Rosella and Miranda at an after hours club. They spent the night talking to him about the darkness and how wonderful it was. Rick thought they were on some serious drugs and admired their high. The girls squealed when a tall dark haired man entered with two females by his side. It was Mortakie.

"Eraina was the one who turned me. I did not fight her when she bit me but embraced it because I felt somewhere deep inside me that it was right. I am a vampire now, not fiction. There was not one moment I did not think about you. That was my main reason for returning to New York City."

"What did you expect?" I said pulling away from him, "that I would offer you my neck and become part of the blood sucking legion! I love sunlight way too much for that."

"That is not true. I cared for you when we dated. I still care now. I want you to be with me."

"You left me! Saying you had to follow your dreams."

"My dream is you, my love, my heart. I know that now."

"You're a vampire. You have no heart." Rick said nothing as I made my way pass him. I almost made it to the café doors when I was grabbed from behind. Rick pulled me to him and kissed me. His lips were as warm and tender as the day he left. He pulled away and left me standing there in a daze. Rosella and Miranda took me home. I sat down on my sofa still stunned from the night's events. Rosella and Miranda smiled at me.

"What?"

"Rick kissed you." Rosella gushed.

"We tried to get him when he was in Europe but he was sooo in love with you." Miranda blushed.

"You can have him girls. Now I don't mean to be rude but it's late and I'm tired."

"Aren't you even curious about Rick and how he became a vampire?" Rosella asked."I got the scoop on his psychotic trip to the trendy bloodsucking clubs of England, thanks."

"It's obvious you have some baggage with him but you should let that all go, love. He's a changed man, for the better." Miranda said smiling. I walked into my bedroom and slammed the door as the tears started to fall.

WHEN THE WIND HOWLS

I awoke on the afternoon of All Saints Day and headed outside to get the morning paper and some breakfast. As I sat at the diner eating my eggs I almost spit them all over the table when I saw the headline of the paper, Bloody Café. My eyes glazed over the article. It said that a man claiming to be a vampire hunter entered the café at around midnight and began shooting people with a crossbow. There were ten dead and a few injured. The owner and several witnesses claimed they saw the man escape. A positive ID could not be made because the café was so dark. The rest of the article had a few comments from Rosella, Miranda and Rick about the tragedy. The article said that the café would be closed for sometime pending an investigation.

I paid my bill and fled to my apartment. With shaking hands I fumbled with my keys to open the door when I realized it was open. I burst in and ran into my bedroom. I grabbed a bag and started throwing some clothes in.

"Going somewhere?" I gasped and turned around to see a woman standing in the doorway of my bedroom. She was about 5'11, slender with long black hair in braids. She had high cheekbones and full red lips. Her eyes were wide and green. She was dressed in ripped jeans and a red tank top with black army boots.

"Who the hell are you and how did you get into my apartment?"

"I picked the lock with my nails. Hope you don't mind." She said raising her left hand to show me her long sharp black nails.

"Listen I don't know what you want but."

"Rick said I could find you here and that you would have a sympathetic ear but so far you have been quite hostile."

"Are you usually hospitable to people who break into your apartment?"

"I guess you have a point. I just don't know who else to turn to. My name is Belinda Wilson."

"Devilynn Thomas, pleased to meet you. Now if you'll excuse me I have to get out of here before sunset."

"You think he won't find you. They'll always find you. Please Devilynn, I need your help." I threw my bag across the room in frustration.

"I watched people die last night and wrote about it like it was a fucking fairy tale! This was all a mistake and there is no way I can fix it but I'm going to make damn sure it doesn't happen again. So whatever Rick told you about me you can just forget it."

Belinda's green eyes began to glow as her gaze mesmerized me. I tried to make my body move but it would not listen. You can't escape fate. No one can. Just accept it and embrace it. Please stay for a while. Her eyes returned to normal as my brain turned to mush.

"Come, let us sit on the sofa and have a nice chat." I unwillingly followed her into the living room and sat down. She pulled out a cigarette and lit it. She took a long drag and exhaled a cloud of smoke before offering me one. I shook my head as she leaned back against the sofa and stared up at the ceiling.

"Trust me. I feel awkward holding you against your will like this but you left me no choice. I can free you if you promise not to run." She turned to look at me as I forced my head to nod. Her eyes glowed for a split second and the spell was broken. I jumped up and Belinda was in front of me blocking the entrance to the kitchen.

"I wanted to get you an ashtray."

A growl escaped her lips as she moved closer and sniffed me. Satisfied that I was telling the truth she went and sat back down. I entered the kitchen and grabbed an ashtray all the while contemplating if I should grab a knife. I returned from the kitchen with an ashtray. Belinda smiled as she took the ashtray and flicked off the remnants of ashes from her cigarette. Leaning over I grabbed her pack of cigarettes and took one. I hacked from the first drag.

"So what do you need me for?" I choked as I ditched out the cigarette.

"It's hard to explain." Belinda said looking toward the door. I turned to see Rick standing in the doorway of my apartment with the bubbly twins. They entered and made themselves comfortable. The girls sat on the floor while Rick leaned up against the wall smiling at me. I turned around and looked out the window, it had grown dark.

"Three years ago I went with some friends to a Goth club in Manhattan where I met a guy named Dine. I don't remember much after that but I woke up in a subway tunnel surrounded by other werewolves. They were once vampires themselves but they were murdered by their own kind."  
"How do you murder a vampire?" I asked.

"Vampires are a higher form of humans but none the less human. If a group of vampires were to drain another vampire it causes temporary death. The last of the blood that is left mutates the vampire into a werewolf." Mortakie said as he entered my apartment and sat on the recliner. The twins nuzzled his legs. I rolled my eyes.

"Dine must pay for the crimes he has committed but we need him to confess." Rick said.

"I really don't like the sound of this." I grabbed another cigarette and lit it. I hacked again and took another drag.

"You haven't smoked in over five years."

"I know Rick. I'm trying to kill myself as quickly as possible so I won't have to be in your presence any longer." The twins giggled and Mortakie shook his head.

"I understand that this is all difficult to comprehend in such a short time but if you cannot trust in Rick then trust in me."

"Listen Mortakie, no offense but why would I trust you? You're practically the god father of the undead legion."

"Please Devilynn. Help me." Belinda begged taking hold of my hand and staring into my eyes. Her emerald orbs glistened as water swelled within them.

"I have to get Dine to confess then right?" I asked looking at all of them. Mortakie nodded. "Ok let's do this."

"Miranda, Rosella please dress Devilynn. The night wanes and so does our time." Every fiber in my being told me to run but I felt bad for Belinda and wanted to help her. I figured either way I was dead so which every way came fastest was fine with me. I entered the Goth club alone. The club was dark and full of smoke; a tortured woman sang with sensual acoustics obeying her every cry. Bodies glided into me as I made my way to the bar and took a seat. I looked around as a strobe light came on as the tempo changed to a hard thumping techno beat. The smoke disappeared as the masses moved in fast angry motions in tune with the music.

I jumped when the bartender tapped me on the shoulder and handed me a drink. I turned around and looked at the tall glass filled with a crimson liquid.

"What's this!" I shouted over the loud music. The bartender leaned over the bar and shouted in my ear.

"It is compliments of the gentleman standing to your far right!"

I pulled away and looked to see a man with short black hair and blue sunglasses staring at me. He was dressed in a black t-shirt and pants. He was about 6'2 with a medium build. He had a square jaw and full lips that spread open in a smile revealing a set of white perfect teeth. Smiling I raised my glass and pretended to take a sip. I looked around and caught sight of Sarah and Thomas dancing with their eyes fixated on me.

"You're new!" I tuned to my left.

"Yeah, I decided to try something different!" I smirked.

"You here alone?" He smiled.

"That's some question to ask a girl without introducing yourself first!"

"I'm Dine! I own this club!"

"I'm Devilynn!" Dine took hold of my hand and gently kissed it.

"Charmed!" I tried to pull my hand away but he kept hold of it. "I won't bite. Unless you want me to!"

"The night is young!" I smiled as he let go of my hand.

"Would you like to dance?"

"Sure!" I said as I hopped off the barstool. As we made our way to the middle of the dance floor the tempo changed to a slow beat. Dine took me in his arms and held me close. His lips caressed my cheek and I tilted my head back offering my neck to him. His lips parted and I could feel his fangs on my flesh. Quickly I grabbed his head and pulled it aside and sank my teeth into his neck. His skin was soft and warm. Dine clutched my head and my teeth pierced his flesh and blood trickled into my mouth. I drank some of his blood out of fear. Mortakie warned me that vampires have very heightened senses and could tell when a person is afraid or lying by any slight change in the body. I pulled his face to mine and kissed him. Dine's fangs pierced my lip. I pulled away and looked at Dine. He licked my blood off his lips.

"I would love to taste more of you." He said in my ear.

"Is there somewhere more private?" I shouted in his ear.

"We can go to my office downstairs!" He took hold of my hand and led me to the back of the club. We headed down these long stairs into the basement. Dine led me into a room with a desk and a few couches. We sat in a large black velvet couch facing each other.

"So are you a real vampire Dine or just pretending?"

"Do you believe in vampires?"

"I am one." I replied.

"Ha! Sure you are honey."

"I pierced your skin and tasted your blood and you tasted mine." I argued.

"If you were a vampire then you'd know I'm one. No, you're just another one of these teens that chase fairy tales. You're obsessed with the sensuality a vampire represents and nothing more." He scoffed.

"You're seriously mistaken Dine."

"Am I? Then tell me why you're here? Really." He smiled.

"Actually I was trying to find my sister. She's been missing for three years now and her friends said this was the last place they saw her before she disappeared. Her name is Belinda." Dine moved back momentarily then regained his composure.

"So many beautiful women grace my establishment every night it is hard to keep track."

"Really, they said the two of you were hot and heavy when she was here."

"I wish I could help you." Dine said removing his sunglasses. He looked into my eyes and I quickly looked away.

"Well I thank you for your time Dine. I have to go now." I went to rise but Dine grabbed my hand and pulled me back down. I looked into his glowing red eyes. He opened his mouth to reveal two long laterals and two short canine fangs.

"You have tasted my blood. A part of me is in you now and I can't let you leave. You must join me or die." He warned.

"If I promise to join you will you tell me about my sister and what happened to her?"

"Belinda was a lot like you, hungry for adventure but she was more submissive. That is until I sank my teeth into her neck. She fought me off pretty well. It took six of us to drain her, feed her, then drain her again until she was dead."

"Why?"

"We like to play with humans from time to time. Belinda wasn't strong enough to join my army."

"But she fought you off?"

"I mean that she could not be trusted. Belinda would be easily swayed by the other side and we can't have that but you, you are different. You're aggressive and the darkness within you is so sweet and inviting. You hold sorrow to you like an old friend. Your constant misery is intoxicating."

"How do you know all of that?"

"From your blood and I plan to find out more. A deal is a deal." Dine opened his mouth wide and I offered my neck to him. I felt his breath as his fangs neared my neck. Reaching down I pulled a small wooden stake from my boot and stabbed him in the chest. Dine lurched back and howled in pain. I got up and ran out of the room. I rushed up the stairs as several guys came out of another room and ran into Dine's office. Sarah and Thomas met me at the top of the stairs.

"You heard him confess. Now go kill him."

"You drove the stake through his heart?" Thomas asked.

"Yes!"

"We have to leave now." Sarah cautioned as she grabbed my arm and tore me through the crowd and out of the doors. A limo pulled up and the three of us got in. Rick, Belinda and Mortakie were there as the limo drove away.

"What's the deal? I got him to confess!"

"It's not that simple." Mortakie said taking hold of my hand, "Vengeance is not ours to take. Dine must be killed by the ones that he has done wrong."

"Come again?"

"We found the other victims of Dine." Belinda said as she lit a cigarette, "They were elders once. Some of the most powerful vampires that ever existed."

"It seems Dine has been hunting them for quite some time." Rick continued, "He created a legion of vampires so vast that not even the strongest of vampires could fight them all off."

"Why?"

"Dine may be acting under the orders of a lower power." Mortakie continued, "There is too much to tell right now but it has begun."

"What?" I asked.

"Rick's returning here was not an accident but part of something much greater than all of us."

"Mortakie, you're starting to freak me out."

"What Mortakie is saying right now is not important. Belinda's situation is." "All right Rick. What's the plan?"

"The sun will be up in about an hour. It is too late for them to come and look for you but rest assured they will hunt you down. You drove a stake through him." Rick said. "That was part of the plan. Don't tell me I did it just to piss him off."

"The stake was for your protection if he tried to bite you." Mortakie said and stopped. He looked into my eyes, his dark orbs changed to a light blue. "You have tasted his blood and he has bitten you."

"So?" I asked. Mortakie shot a look at Rick before his eyes returned to the darken pits they once were. Belinda spoke cutting the awkward silence in half.

"The others are waiting for us at your apartment. When Dine comes for you tomorrow night we will be there to destroy him."

"That's great and all Belinda but what if he comes with his crew?"

"There are more of us that you and Dine don't know of." Belinda said.

"Besides I will be there with Mortakie and the others. You are in no immediate danger."

"Thanks for clearing that up Rick. I was getting nervous for a bit there."

The limo dropped Belinda and I off. We entered my apartment where there were several other people seated on the couch and chairs waiting for us to return. They all rose as Belinda introduced them. Leviticus, Jacob, Athena, Tina, Miles and Marcus. We all talked for some time and I came to learn that these vampires were turned as far back as the 12th century. They each recapped the horrifying story of how they were drained by thousands of vampires and left for dead. I shivered from the chilling stories and lack of sleep.

"Devilynn is tired. We will watch over you as you rest." I nodded at Belinda as I headed into my bedroom and collapsed. Belinda shook me awake around sunset.

"It will be dark soon. You must hurry. Rick and the others are at a safe distance so they will not be sensed by the others." I nodded as Belinda left. Stretching I went and took a shower to wake myself up. I stepped out and dressed in a tank, jeans and sneakers. I put my hair up in a ponytail and sat on the couch. My stomach twisted into knots as the silence of the apartment echoed in my ears. Looking down at the table I saw a pack of cigarettes with a note attached to it. Belinda left them for me in case I needed to calm down. Laughing I took out a cigarette and lit it. Taking a drag I turned on the stereo and sat back down on the couch and waited. I closed my eyes for a moment trying to relax and that's when I saw the images. Dine and his crew were holding down Belinda as he tore at her clothes and sank his teeth into her neck. The other vampires sucked at her arms and legs like leeches. My eyes snapped open. Ditching out my cigarette I stood up and turned off the stereo.

"You are a naughty one Devilynn." I turned to see Dine standing by the sofa.

"I thought I killed you." Dine laughed as he lifted his black t-shirt to show me his chest. There was no wound there.

"You missed the heart my dear." I ran for the door and was grabbed by my hair by Dine. I tried to fight him as he pulled me back to the sofa and threw me down. "I gave you a chance to join me now you will die."

"This is your night to die, Dine." He turned to see Belinda standing in the doorway. "Belinda. You bitches don't die easily do you?"

"You're a sloppy killer and a stupid one."

"So you've come all alone to kill me."

"Of course. I thought it was a fair fight."

"Baby, you know I don't fight fair." Dine grabbed me and held me in front of him with his fangs near my throat. Belinda entered the apartment and was hit from behind by Dine's buddies. She collapsed to the floor motionless.

"Tie her ass to that sofa and wake her up. I don't want her to miss this." They obeyed and tied Belinda up before slapping her awake. Belinda opened her green eyes and looked up at Dine.

"You should have stayed dead. Now you will watch as we drain your sister before killing you." Dine's fangs neared my throat then stopped as his men where tossed about one by one like rag dolls. He pulled his mouth away as the werewolves entered the living room. Belinda also transformed before our eyes into a she-wolf. They towered over us as they came near.

"If you take one more step I will drain her blood."

"You won't even have a chance to before we rip you apart." Belinda said as she lunged at us. I ducked and crawled away as they jumped at Dine and pinned him to the floor ripping him apart. The other vampires jumped on the wolves trying to pull them off of Dine but Mortakie's vampires stopped them. I rose and backed away toward the door. A hand clamped over my mouth and pulled me out of the door.

"Hush now my love, it's Rick." I let my body relax as he let go of my mouth. Turning I jumped into his arms and held him tight. He laughed and stroked my hair. "You are missing all the action. How will you finish the story unless you watch?" With my arms still clutched around his chest I looked back into the apartment. Mortakie and his followers killed Dine's men by breaking their necks and drinking their blood before staking them through the heart. The wolves still feasted on Dine. They pulled his arms out and chewed at his legs and throat. Muffled gurgles could be heard over the cracking of bones and the growling of the wolves. A few minutes later it was done. The wolves returned to human form. Mortakie's face froze as he looked at Leviticus and then at Athena.

"Leviticus, Athena. For so long I thought." They walked over to Mortakie and Leviticus whispered in his ear. Athena kissed Mortakie's cheek. Belinda walked out to me.

"I can't thank you enough Devilynn. Know that if you ever need me I will be there for you." I nodded and hugged Belinda. The other wolves came out and kissed my cheeks as they left. Some of them nodded at Rick before following Belinda out of the building. Mortakie walked up to me, his eyes were filled with sorrow.

"We shall take care of this mess. In the mean time you can stay with Rick." I nodded as Rick led me away. I stayed the night at Rick's apartment that was in the basement of the cafe. We talked for some time about our past together and how much fun we had. It was good to laugh again and think about the old days. Rick actually appeared human to me for some time. He kissed me good day as he left shortly before sunrise to go to bed. Smiling I looked down to my left and saw that my notebook was there with a pen marking the page I left off at. I spent most of the day writing everything down. I don't know why I did it but I guess as Belinda said; you can't escape fate, no matter how fast you run.

VISIONS OF THE PAST

I left Rick's basement apartment later in the day to head home. It was a cloudy day and the wind whipped at my hair and coat as I fought against it to my block. I walked up the stairs to my apartment and when I entered I saw that my apartment was as I left it. There was no trace of what had happened just last night. I sat on my sofa and relaxed letting my eyes close as the silence wrapped me in its warmth. Images flashed through my head of Dine covered in blood and standing over a Leviticus as many others continued to drain him. He looked to his left and caught sight of a woman. He smiled and walked over to her.

"Ariana. Always lovely to see you." Dine said taking Ariana's hand and gently kissing it.

"The feeling is mutual." Ariana said looking over at Leviticus and smiling before turning her attention back to Dine. "I am also very impressed by the way you have been dispatching these elders. They are hard to track down and even harder to kill."

"It was your idea to do this."

"I wish I could take all the credit. Here is a list of the others." Ariana handed the list to Dine who looked it over with a furrowed brow.

"Ariana, these vampires are not going to be as easy. The others traveled alone but people always surround Mortakie, Eraina and Helena. Mortakie has increased his army since the war in the sixteen hundreds. The twins cloak him in darkness."

"Quit your blubbering. I will send in the slayers to take care of Mortakie's followers."

"Mortakie is here?"

"So I have been informed. He will make his first appearance at a cafe in the village. They will all be there."

"Mortakie and the others will kill any slayers you send."

"I just want to send a message to Eraina. She will understand what it means."

"I'll try my best to take care of the others."

"Of course Dine. If you have to expand your army then do so. Focus on annihilating the twins. They are too powerful, then take care of Helena and the rest is easy." Ariana evaporated into the darkness. My eyes snapped open as I tried to adjust to my surroundings. My heart pounded as my chest heaved from an unknown fear. I wasn't sure if what I saw was a dream or not. I looked out of my window and saw that the sky had grown dark. I turned back around and jumped.

"Do not be afraid my child." Helena said as she made her way over to me.

"You seem surprised to see us." Mortakie smiled as he sat on the recliner. Eraina stood by his side. I looked around almost expecting Rick to pop out of my bedroom.

"Rick is not aware of our coming here nor will he ever be unless you wish him to." Helena said with a smile.

"I'm glad you guys are here I have something to tell you." I sighed before telling them about the dream I just had..

"Leviticus is dead?" Eraina asked as a tear trickled down her face.

"No Eraina. I saw him last night. He's a werewolf now along with a few others." Eraina glared at Mortakie.

"Devilynn speaks the truth my dear." Mortakie sighed.

"Why have you kept this from me Mortakie?"

"To spare you."

"To spare me what? Pain. I have had centuries of it! You promised that there would be no more treachery on your part and it has begun again. Is that why you begged me not to come with you last nigh?" Mortakie attempted to put his arm around Eraina but she evaporated before my eyes. He looked at Helena who nodded and evaporated as well.

"What's going on?"

"It is a long story my dear. One day I will tell you everything. It will be your first novel." Mortakie smiled.

"Why am I seeing these things?"

"Well you have tasted the blood of a vampire and Dine has bitten you. A small portion of the vampiric disease has been transferred to you. The visions you are having are pictures of Dine's past."

"Does this mean I will become a vampire?"

"No. You must be drained to the point of death then the vampire must give you his blood to drink to replace what he has taken. The disease will then engulf you and transform you into a vampire. You have done the opposite."

"So what does that mean?"

"I am not too sure. I have never known a vampire to be bitten by a human. I suppose in this situation you are a half-breed. You are still human but you might find yourself up at night, a bit sensitive to sunlight and thirst for raw meat."

"Great as if my life wasn't messed up enough."

"You should see this more as a blessing than a curse. The information you receive from these visions will prove quite useful in the future. It already has. Now we know part of what Ariana is up to."

"Who is she?"

"Ariana is a vampire and a very powerful sorceress by her own right. We do not know much about how she came to have these powers nor who she is working for."

"I've completely lost you Mortakie."

"Humans since the dawn of time have lived their lives in an enclosed reality unaware of the different forces that are at constant war to insure the safety of their existence. Do you believe in God?"

"I went to catholic school for twelve years but I never bought the junk they taught us."

"Well most of what you read in school is fiction and very little fact." I laughed and closed my eyes for a brief moment. Lights flashed around me.

"We have done well and our boss is very happy. Now we have a new agenda. It seems that there are humans out there that need to be exterminated in the same manner as the vampires." Dine smiled as he sat down at the head of a long table.

"What about the other elders?" A female asked from across the room.

"They will have to wait for now. Our first victim is Belinda Wilson. Tanya and Karen will befriend our little bird and bring her here." The two girls chuckled with delight.

"Well what about the rest of us. There have to be some more humans."

"Yes Josh there is but we have to take care of her first."

"But why humans? They have nothing to do with the war."

"That is none of our business Josh. Ariana has her reasons and they shouldn't be questioned."

The lights flashed again and I shielded my eyes from it. I awoke with a start and looked right at Mortakie. He sat with a concerned look on his face.

"You had another vision?" I nodded and quickly told him about it. He nodded and rose.

"Where are you going?"

"I have to go and make amends with my wife, Eraina. In the mean time you should write these visions down. I think everything we have spoken about tonight would make a very interesting story."

"Now you sound just like Rick." Mortakie laughed as he kissed my fore head.

"You may want to consider telling him all of this. No good comes out of lies and treachery as you have witnessed tonight."

"You have a point." I said as I watched Mortakie turn and head towards the door. "Isn't it easier to evaporate?"

"Yes but I find it quite rude and shall use the door out of respect." I laughed as Mortakie walked out and closed the door. As I wrote down my visions I thought about Rick. We never kept secrets from each other. After an hour of writing I took my coat and left to Rick's apartment. The night was cool and all the teens were out in the village stalking the streets and various music stores. I made my way passed them and down the alley toward the basement stairs.

"Do you think this is over?" I turned to see one of the girls from my vision.

"Tanya?" The girl smiled as she grabbed my neck and slammed me up against the wall. I tried to wrench free but she squeezed even harder.

"You think that you got rid of Dine and the others but they will become werewolves like the others we have killed. When that happens he will come back and finish the job." Tanya's grip on my throat was released as she was thrown aside by a black shadow. Tanya hissed as the shadow appeared. She lunged at Rick. The two tumbled around on the floor before Rick pinned her against the wall by her throat. Rick's eyes were red and he hissed showing his fangs.

"I will not stake you down and let the sun burn you to ashes! Instead you will take this message back to your coven. If you even think of coming after Devilynn again I will come to your precious club and burn it to the ground." Tanya hissed before evaporating in Rick's grasp. Rick made his way over to me and helped me up and into his apartment.

"Why have you ventured here at night?"

"That's when you're awake." I said rubbing my throat. "Besides I have something to tell you." Rick sat next to me on the sofa as I told him about everything that happened. He listened with little expression in his face but his eyes reflected anger.

"I always thought that I would be the first one to bite you." He laughed the anger still in his eyes. Rick was very jealous. He may have laughed it off but inside it was tearing him apart and if Dine were not already dead he would gladly kill him.

"What did happen to Dine?"

"After we left Belinda and the others they took them to the roof of your apartment building and watched as their bodies were burnt to ashes by the sun. So Dine will not come back to seek revenge even though I am not too sure about Tanya and the others."

"Yeah she didn't seem to happy with your threat."

"That is why I wish to propose that you move in with me."

"We tried this before and it didn't work out. Besides what if you get hungry one night and decide to snack on me."

"If I wanted to do that I would do it regardless of where you reside." I laughed closing my eyes for a brief moment and in that time I had another vision. Dine was in Ariana's arms drinking blood from her wrist.

"I need you Dine. You will serve me and I will give you eternal life." Ariana said before she pulled away. Ariana sat on the couch drained and watched in delight as Dine trashed around on the floor. He screamed and clutched at his stomach.

"It burns. My veins are going to explode." Ariana's laughter echoed through the office as Dine's body fell limp. A few minutes later Dine awoke pale skinned and smiled at all he saw. He raised his hands and looked at them awed by the marble smoothness.

"What am I?" He cooed.

"A vampire. My vampire." My eyes snapped open. I was on the floor in Rick's arms.

"You were trashing about like a wild woman." I told him about what I saw.

"There is no order to your visions."

"That is how it is with images. They come in bursts with no sense of time or order. Forgive me for intruding but Mortakie's followers have been very edgy since Devilynn started having these visions."

"Why would my visions affect the other vampires Helena?"

"Well like Adam and Eve, vampires stem from one vampiric mother and father. It is how we are linked to one another. Vampires can sense each other whether the connection is strong or not."

'"Devilynn is not a vampire." Helena smiled at Rick as she made her way over to us. She held out her hands and we each took hold of one. Helena knelt down and looked at me.

"No she is not one of us Rick but she has tasted the blood of a vampire and has been bitten. It does not take more than that for her to be connected to the other vampires out there."

Helena explained that if Mortakie's followers were at unrest every time I had a vision then she could not imagine what vampires all over the world could be feeling. She feared that Ariana knew of everything and might attempt to come after me along with every other enemy of Mortakie's. Helena said I stay somewhere safe where vampires would not be able to sense me. Rick suggested that I stay with him. Helena was against it. She said that I had to stay with someone who wasn't a vampire so the others wouldn't be able to find me. I agreed with Helena and rose to leave with her.

"Wait. I will not see you for quite some time and I am unsure if I could bare that." Rick said taking hold of my hands. I looked into his saddened eyes and kissed his lips.

"It's for the best. Besides think of how many issues I'll be able to write on these visions alone. You're gonna be rich." Rick laughed as I walked out with Helena and back to my apartment. I walked in to see Belinda on my sofa smoking a cigarette. Her eyes lit up when she saw me. I ran to Belinda and hugged her.

"You'll be staying with me for a bit love. Don't worry you will be safe."

"You should pack a few things Devilynn." Helena said as she turned around to leave. I ran into my room and collected a few things. We left my apartment as the sun rose and headed down into the subway. At the end of the platform Belinda hopped down and I followed. She guided me down the tracks weaving through different tunnels before stopping.

"I have to blind fold you now. If your ties to the other vampires are that strong they will see what you see and that would put us all in hot water." Belinda said as she put a black cloth over my eyes. Lights flashed around me. I could see Dine standing over me covered in blood. He smiled as I turned my head to see other vampires draining me. I tried to struggle but the effort was useless.

"So you are the famous Athena, half demon and vampire. It's a damn shame you sided with them, I could have saved your immortal life but now you must die." Dine sat on top of me and bared his fangs. Ariana came up behind him. Her lips didn't move but I could hear her voice clearly in my head.

"It's just as well that you die. You are an abomination and there is no telling what would become of future wars if your offspring were to survive. Your children would be unstoppable. I cannot risk either side getting a hold of them."

The light closed in again before exploding into darkness. I opened my eyes to see that I was in Belinda's arms.

"Are you alright? You were twitching the whole time I carried you." I sat up and looked around. We were in a large abandoned station. I looked at Belinda.

"I'm fine. I, ah, just been having these strange dreams ever since last night. They kind of spook me out."

"Well make yourself comfortable. The others are out now feeding and getting some things for you to eat as well." I smiled and plopped down on one of the ragged sofas. Belinda sat down next to me and lit a cigarette.

"I have reason to believe that Dine murdering you was no accident Belinda. Your name was on a list."

"What list?"

"I don't know. Some chick named Ariana gave it to him. I'm not sure who she is because everyone's so quiet about her. All they do is make faces when I say her name."

"Ariana is feared and loathed because of what she is. A mystery." I looked up to see Marcus..

"Did she have you killed as well?" Marcus nodded.

"I met Ariana in the late eighteenth hundreds. I found her very enchanting and even fell in love with her. Then she asked the unspeakable of me, to murder other vampires. She knew the code as well as I did and that it was forbidden to hunt your own. When I refused she left me but not before she vowed to seek revenge. I had not seen her since, that is until I was murdered a hundred years later by vampires."

"Was it Dine?"

"No. Ariana has been creating these strong legions of vampires for quite some time. In those days the humans known as slayers disposed of these vampires. Her army would grow and then disappear and the cycle continued. However now in the twenty first century things have changed. It is harder to track down her vampires."

"Some of the others believe that Ariana would create these vampires and then have the hunters kill them before they would have a chance to revolt against her." Belinda said as she ditched out her cigarette.

"So she decided to keep this army for now?"

"Yes." Marcus said.

"I still don't understand how you guys were turned into werewolves. I always thought the species were different."

"The blood of a vampire is a parasite that evolves over time. The first vampires were not the same as we are. The slightest bit of light used to irritate them but as you can see we are fine with artificial light." Marcus said looking around the brightly lit station. Marcus went on to explain that a vampire cannot be completely drained of blood no matter how many vampires feast upon them. A small amount still remains within the dormant vampire and that blood begins to mutate and grow into something else. These vampires become a lesser form of what they were. They become weaker and that is why they hide out. Marcus said that if the vampires ever found them and burned them alive there would be nothing left of the disease to mutate into something else.

"Shit! Belinda, Dine was shocked to see you were alive right?"

"Yes he thought he killed me."

"Well I was attacked by this girl named Tanya and."

"Wait. Tanya, long dark hair and dark green eyes?"

"Yes."

"She was one of the girls who took me to the club. I met her on campus when I was going to school. We had the same night classes for almost a year. She disappeared after I was killed."

"Yeah well she is one of them."

"Damn."

"That's not all. Tanya knows that you guys turned into werewolves after you were drained. I don't know how she knew it and Dine didn't."

"I have to admit this is most disturbing news. Ariana must know of us and has informed her army. We have to remain on guard and find some way to speak with Mortakie about this. Did you tell him about this?"

"No Marcus. It didn't hit me until now. Maybe I should leave."

"Where would you go? They will find you. Here we can protect you."

"I know Belinda but things are just to hectic now. What if I get you all killed?"

"I doubt that will happen. If Ariana knows of us and wanted us dead she would have already done so."

"Why do you think that Marcus?"

"As I said before Belinda, We pose no threat to Ariana as werewolves. She has more pressing manners to deal with. Her main objective now is Mortakie."

The three of us sat in silence for quite some time. In my head I tried to piece together everything that happened over the past few days. All I know is that there was a war brooding with what or whom still remains a mystery. I excused myself and found a nice quiet spot to write and reflect. In only three days my life has been taken from me and I don't even know why. There's no use crying about it now, hopefully in my time here I could learn more about what's going on. I'm deathly afraid of what it is but I guess I have no choice.

DON'T BE AFRAID OF THE DARK

I wish I could say I got some sleep last night; instead I was tortured by visions. Most of the visions were of Dine and the others dispatching of vampire elders and humans. It sickened me that I could feel the psychotic pleasure he took in destroying people. I was dying for a shower in order to rid myself of these disgusting feelings. It clung to me like mud, thick and heavy it weighed me down. I dragged myself to the couch with my notebook and sat down. I tried to write as my skin crawled making me shiver as my eyes closed.

Dine was lying on his couch in his office with his feet propped up. He had a paper in one hand and a red pen in the other. He smiled as he made dash marks across the page. Ariana entered quite urgently. Dine smiled.

"Hello beautiful."

"You are slacking off Dine. I thought I created a warrior but it looks like I was wrong."

"Relax doll." Dine said as he sat up and rose, "Dine's got it all covered."

"There are at least one thousand names of half-breeds on that list that need to be taken care of. If they are allowed to come into their full powers we will have a major crisis on our hands. I abhor the devil as much as the rest of the religious world but I cannot stand another millennium of good will. A sorceress cannot thrive in a white world."

"You should be a politician love."

"You should get off your ass and finish your job. The only advantage we have over these half-breeds is that they are not aware of the legacy they carry within their bodies because all ties to them have been disposed of not long after they were brought into this world."

"I got it covered."

"Really. The second name on the list has not been crossed out."

"She was hard to find."

"Yes. Well the third on the list is lost to us now. He keeps very powerful company and soon she will too."

"So what. We could still take them." Dine said circling two names on his list.

"My dear Dine. You do not know their power or Mortakie's wrath. They are to be feared, all five of them." Ariana finished as she turned to leave.

"So what should I do now?"

"There is still hope of obtaining the girl. You have to hurry though, the others are fast on her trail."

My eyes snapped open when I heard a blood-curdling scream ring out through the station. I shook my head as my eyes adjusted to the chaos that surrounded me. Dark shadows loomed around the station as the werewolves growled and snarled. I rose and was knocked to the ground by a werewolf.

"It's Belinda," I could hear her voice in my head, " Stay down, they have come for you." I nodded and looked around as the shadows transformed into vampires. They surrounded the werewolves who were poised and waiting for the first sign to attack. Tanya turned and looked down at me. Her eyes turned red as she hissed showing her fangs.

"Kill them!" She shouted as hundreds of vampires lunged at the werewolves.

"Run!" Belinda screamed. I rose and ran toward the exit then stopped. Turning around I saw about ten vampires jump on Belinda. They sunk their fangs into her as several others came with bats and began to beat at her. I cried out to Belinda but she didn't answer as she tried to fight them off. I ran over to the table and picked up one of the wooden chairs. I smashed it over the head of one of the vampires and the chair broke into sharp pieces. Quickly I snatched up the broken wood and drove it through the hearts of every vampire I came in contact with. One of them dropped their aluminum bat, which I picked up and began swinging in a violent rage. Vampires were knocked from side to side. One grabbed the end of the bat and broke it in half with his hand. I shoved the pointed handle into his heart and watched as he dropped to the floor. I knelt down beside Belinda, she had returned to her human form. There were bruises all over her body and her face and hair were drenched in blood.

"Devilynn I told you to run."

"I just couldn't leave you here."

"They won't kill us. They are here for you. Go. I'll be fine." I was grabbed from behind by my hair and thrown to the floor. I looked up to see Tanya towering over me.

"I told you I'd kill you bitch." She grabbed my hair and tossed me across the room, my back hit the table breaking it in half. I grabbed my side in pain and felt a large piece of wood stuck in there. Tanya was already over me and grabbed my throat. Growling she slammed me into the wall and tightened her grip. "I'm going to enjoy squeezing the life out of you."

"Tanya what are you doing? You're not supposed to kill her."

"Shut up Josh! I don't care what Ariana wants. I will have my revenge for what she did to Dine." Josh grabbed Tanya's arm, she hissed before knocking him aside with her other hand. While she was occupied with Josh, I pulled the wooden shard from my side and raised it over my head. Tanya turned her attention back to me in enough time to see me ram the stake through her arm. Tanya screeched and let go of me. I fell to the floor like a ton of bricks. Tanya's eyes glowed as she pulled the stake out of her arm and tossed it aside. I turned and ran a few steps before I was thrown back again. Tanya grabbed my hair and sank her fangs into my neck. I cried out in pain as I felt my blood flow out of my body. My hands flailed around before my fingers felt a long wooden stick. Clutching it I rammed it into Tanya's back. She pulled her face away from my neck and howled like a banshee. I tackled her to the floor and took hold of her bloody arm and sank my teeth in.

In the heat of the moment you'll do anything to survive. I was aware that she had drunk a lot of my blood and that I would be dead in a matter of minutes so I drank her blood to sustain my life long enough to get away and find Mortakie to warn him and get help for the others. I felt a hand on my hair trying to yank me off. Pulling away I saw it was Tanya trying desperately to yank me off of her. Smiling I pinned her hand to the ground and sank my teeth into her neck. The blood flowed like a river into my mouth and I drank it well aware of what I was going to become. At this point it didn't matter to me. They would continue to come after me and I couldn't risk putting any more people in danger. At least if I were a vampire I could protect myself better and not have to rely on others to protect me.

With each luscious gush gliding down my throat I saw visions of Tanya's past and her loving relationship with Dine. I saw how she loved the sun and cried for days when she realized she had to give it up to be with the man she loved. Tanya didn't want to be a vampire but for Dine she would do anything and that became her undoing. I saw all the vampires and half-breeds she killed and how she came to know Belinda at college and became friends with her. Tanya relished in the fact that she got to play with Belinda's emotions eventually leading Belinda to her demise. The visions stopped and so did Tanya's twitching. I pulled away and looked at her motionless body. Her eyes were closed and her chest wasn't moving. I looked over at Belinda who was also motionless. I ran over to her and dropped to my knees and attempted to find a pulse.

"No Belinda. Please don't die on me. I'm so sorry this is all my fault." I lurched forward in pain and fell back against the sofa. The pain traveled through my body at the speed of a bullet. My veins tightened and my head pounded like there were a thousand people playing their drum solos in my head. I cried out before the darkness consumed me. I don't know how long I was out or what happened during that time. I came to when I heard Rick's voice and felt a pair of arms cradling me.

"Devilynn. You should have stayed with me. I could have protected you."

"I am truly sorry Rick."

"This is all Ariana's doing, Mortakie."

"I do not think that Ariana wished Devilynn's demise."

"If only we came sooner."

"I told her to run Rick but she came to my aid when I was attacked by the vampires. Tanya grabbed her and the two of them fought like wildcats. I was too weak to help her." Belinda apologized through sobs of guilt and pain.

"Is it too late to turn her Mortakie?"

"You are not strong enough to do that Rick."

"No but you are and so is Helena, Eraina and the twins."

"No Rick. She has been dead for some time now."

Rick said nothing else. I tried to call out to him but he couldn't hear me and I couldn't open my eyes. I stood up in the darkness and ran in the direction of the voices I heard. Helena was trying to comfort Rick with soothing words while Belinda continued to sob. They were getting closer as I ran faster and faster. Feeling a drop of liquid hit my hand I stopped and looked at my arm to see a puddle of blood on it. Looking up I saw more droplets of blood begin to fall on me like a rainstorm. I closed my eyes and opened my mouth to taste the blood as the hunger burned in my veins. My eyes snapped open to see Rick's eyes closed and tears of blood streaming down them. I raised my hand and wiping them away I put my fingers in my mouth and tasted his blood. A vision of Rick and I by the Brooklyn Promenade looking over at the Manhattan skyline flashed before my eyes. The smoke cleared and I could see the shock in Rick's eyes as he stared at me.

"Devilynn. You are alive but how?"

Mortakie and the others made their way over to us. I looked at each and every one of their faces; some were relieved while others were still in shock. Rick covered me in kisses and held me tight.

"I love you! I promise to protect you and never leave your side ever."

"I love you too Rick and I will be by your side for all eternity."

Rick pulled away and looked into my eyes. I could feel him trying to scan my thoughts to find out what happened. I slammed the door shut and he jumped. Rick looked up at Mortakie.

"She has been transformed Rick."

"Devilynn. What happened?" Rick asked as he helped me up and sat me down on the couch. I looked around the station and saw the werewolves were badly bruised but still alive. They were busy carrying the bodies of the vampires over to a huge pit of fire and tossing them in. Belinda was on the floor staring at me with tears in her eyes.

"Is everyone alright?" I asked. Many yeses echoed in my head but no one's lips moved. I nodded and smiled as I looked at my skin. It was pale and smooth like a porcelain doll. Everything around me seemed brighter than it was a few hours ago. I let my hand caress the couch and I could feel every single fiber down to the 1978 quarter that was under the cushion I sat on.

"Devilynn?" I turned to Rick and smiled seeing him for the first time in all his vampiric beauty. He was no longer a vision of horror and disgust to me. I reveled in this new feeling for a few more minutes before I opened my mouth to speak. Quickly and in a hoarse voice I told them what I had done. Rick slammed his hand on the couch before rising and walking away. Helena took a seat next to me and put her arm around me.

"What you did was very brave and quite stupid. You could have been killed."

"No you don't understand Helena. It was so natural to me; I felt the same way when I bit Dine's neck. Either way it didn't matter to me if I lived or die. A small part of me was hoping it would kill me so everyone would be left alone. But now I have Tanya's thoughts too. Do you know all the info I can give you on this chick Ariana and what she's up too."

"We know quite well who she is and what her plans are."

"Eraina this is not the time."

"Is it ever Helena? Have you people not learned from the past what secrets can do to a person."

"Eraina you hold onto this anger but what's done is done."

"No Mortakie. I am done. If you are in need of some truth from all you have seen Devilynn please feel free to come see me."

"We will tell her the truth in time."

"When Helena? She keeps company with Athena and Leviticus yet she has no idea of who they are." Helena rose and looked into Eraina's eyes.

"That is enough!"

I looked pass them to see Rick at the other end of the station with his head against the wall. Rising I walked over to him and put my hand on his shoulder.

"I know you wanted to be the one to turn me but I had no choice. I wanted to die. All I could see when she was draining me was your face and that made me want to live." Rick moved away from the wall and turned to face me.

"Really?" Smiling I nodded. Rick took me in his arms and held me tight. "Oh Devilynn I want us to be together. I've missed you so. Wanted you so. Needed you." I pulled away from Rick and placed my hand over his lips. His eyes bore into mine and I could see the happiness and sorrow that engulfed him. Pulling my hand away I kissed his lips. Rick pulled me closer to him as his lips closed over mine. We kissed for some time.

"You two should get a room." I pulled away from Rick and turned to face Belinda. Most of her wounds had healed. She smiled at me and I hugged her tightly.

"Ouch! My ribs are still killing me." We laughed and walked back toward the others. Mortakie and Helena were talking in the corner with Athena while Eraina spoke with Leviticus on the other side. I tried to scan their minds but one by one they slammed the doors shut locking me out. Turning toward Eraina and Leviticus I watched Eraina sob as Leviticus embraced her tightly.

"What's going on Rick?"

"There is a great mess that has to be cleared and much planning to be done. The elders did not anticipate this."

"Nobody did." Belinda shrugged as she left to help the other werewolves toss bodies into the flames. The others made their way over to us.

"I am truly sorry for my behavior Devilynn. My life as a vampire has not been an easy one." Eraina smiled as she embraced me.

"We are also truly sorry for keeping the truth from you." Helena said smiling.

"And I am truly sorry for causing my wife so much pain." Mortakie said kissing Eraina's forehead.

"Well I'm sorry I didn't do this sooner. I feel awesome." The others laughed easing the mounting tension.

"You must have a million questions." Leviticus said as he wrapped his arms around Eraina. I nodded before doubling over in pain. The pit in my stomach grew larger as a hunger ripped through me. I felt my eyes burning and my fangs rip through my gums. My skin was on fire. Rick put his hand on my shoulder. Consumed by an uncontrollable hunger I grabbed his arm and sank my teeth in. His blood gushed into my mouth as he cried out in pain. Mortakie tried to pull me off of him. I let go of Rick and sank my fangs into Mortakie and drank some of his blood before Leviticus took hold of me. He gripped me tight as the hunger raged inside me. A growl escaped my lips as I tried to struggle free.

"Hold her for a bit longer. The hunger will subside." Helena cautioned as she attended to Rick and Mortakie. Eraina looked at me with fear in her eyes.

"Why is this happening to her?"

"Devilynn is a vampire now Eraina. When the hunger strikes it is hard to control. She needed blood."

"A vampire never attacks their own."

"If I remember correctly Rick you attacked Miranda and Rosella in the same fashion." Helena said as she helped them onto the sofa.

"These new breeds are quite amazing." Athena commented as she stood behind Eraina and looked at me. The pain in the pit of my stomach began to subside as the blood in my veins began to run at a much slower pace. Leviticus sensed that I was calm and released me. Shaking the cobwebs from my head I walked over to Mortakie and Rick.

"I'm sorry. I don't know what came over me." Mortakie nodded as Rick rose and hugged me.

"It's alright love. It's alright."

"I wish we had answers for you Devilynn but our war was a long time ago and vampires have evolved since then."

"Mortakie is right. I think it is time that you and Rick plan a little trip to see the world and find others like yourself and learn what they have learned."

"Why Helena? You guys would know more about us then anyone."

"No Devilynn. We know some but not enough. If you wish to know your past then we can help you but now you must be concerned with your future."

"In the upcoming war you have the right to choose which side you are willing to aid. If there is goodness in your soul then you will be guided by your heart but if there is evil, persuasion of a clever vampire would bring you down." Eraina said as she looked at Mortakie before turning away. I looked at all of them as the fogginess set in my head. They talked in so many riddles it was hard to figure out what they meant.

"Who are these half-breeds Ariana is hunting?" Everyone stopped what they were doing and turned toward me. Eraina's eyes clouded over with sorrow as well as Athena's.

"They are children born of a single vampire parent weaker than those who were born from two vampire parents." Eraina said.

"Oh that makes sense. She wants to get rid of the weakest links before going after the elders. Besides you guys are there any others?" I asked turning to Helena.

"We have not been able to locate them. I have tried for so long but there are no answers."

"They must be werewolves then Helena. You guys couldn't find Athena and Leviticus until Belinda showed up." I finished.

"Well we found them. Athena and I saw Belinda in the tunnels not long after she was dumped there. After a few weeks we took her in and helped her as best as we could. Belinda stumbled onto Rick while she was out stalking her killer." Leviticus added.

"Belinda and I talked for some time and her story intrigued me. We needed a decoy to dispose of this threat to us and you were perfect for the job."

"Geezz thanks Rick, you could have got me killed. Oh wait you did, all of you did. Thanks." I threw my hands up in surrender and turned away. Eraina walked up behind me and whispered in my ear.

"Betrayal is an evil thing, it can eat away at your goodness until you are consumed by the devil himself. Keep your heart pure my child, inside you know what is right." I turned toward Eraina and held her tight. I could feel a light radiate from her soul as it crept into mine. My skin started to burn and when I looked down at my arm it started to turn red. Screaming I pushed Eraina away and fell to the ground. The fire raged inside of me trying to push it's way out. I felt my head and back split open at the same time as my nails grew black and long before my eyes. Once the burning stopped I rose and looked at everyone. Their expressions were of awe and fear. Eraina turned from me and ran away.

"What is wrong with me?" Even my voice had changed to a deeper pitch.

"Devilynn listen to me. You must calm down. Will yourself back into your human form." Mortakie coaxed.

"Human form. What the hell is wrong with her?" Rick screamed finally sounding like his old self.

"You can do it Devilynn. Just relax." Mortakie continued.

"Relax? What is everyone talking about? Why do I sound like this?"

"You've transformed into a demon." Belinda said.

"What?"

"Please calm yourself down Devilynn. It will only get worse. You are still young to all of this. Please." Helena coaxed. I looked around at everyone and saw their faces, heard their voices echoing in my head.

I closed my eyes and slowly turned around forcing my heart to beat a little slower and my blood to run a bit smoother. My skin stopped burning as the wings and horns disappeared. When I was sure I was normal again I opened my eyes and judging from everyone's expression I was myself again.

"Okay now that was a bit wild. Too wild for me. I have to go." I said as I turned and ran away. I could hear them calling me to come back but their voices faded away as I made my way up to the surface and back to my apartment an hour before sunrise. Quickly I taped dark sheets to my bedroom window and pulled my bed to the darkest corner of the room. Thoughts crept into my head and I pushed them out knowing well enough they weren't mine. Deciding that the bed was not a good idea I turned around and went into my closet with a blanket, a pillow, my journal and a flashlight. I sat there writing and crying as the first rays of sunlight danced across my bedroom floor through the dark sheets. Turning away from the majestic brightness I, after much trouble, finally fell asleep.

A BEGINNING OF THE END

I awoke with a start as the darkness consumed me. Lifting my hands to my face I felt the smooth velvet above my head and stopped. I let my hands feel across the top and then down the sides as panic set in.

"I'm in a coffin! Let me out!!!" I screamed as I pounded and clawed at the velvet.

"Oh I'm sorry baby. I should have warned you that we sleep in coffins." Dine said as he lifted the lid of the coffin. I bolted up and took deep breaths as he rubbed my back.

"I'm claustrophobic." I gasped as Dine walked over to a closet and pulled out a long purple corset dress.

"Try it on. I got it just for you my raven haired beauty." I looked at Dine before climbing out of the coffin. Catching a glimpse of myself in the mirror I realized I was Tanya. I had to be in her memories now. Having no control of my actions I put the dress on and looked at myself in the mirror.

"How can I see myself? Vampires don't have a reflection."

"Oh Tanya," Dine chuckled, "you don't believe everything you read do you?" I turned to Dine and kissed him feeling the warmth of his lips. When I opened my eyes I was in my dark closet. Flinging the door open I crawled out and into the shower. The hot water felt good on my skin as the events of the pass few days swept through my mind clearing away any dust of sanity I had left. When I got out of the shower and walked into my living room Eraina was already there sitting on my couch.

"Forgive my intrusion Devilynn. I wish to speak with you without the influence of the others. Their type of truth is hard to comprehend."

"That's alright Eraina. I wasn't sure who to speak with first. My instincts tell me to go to Mortakie but my heart leads me to you and Helena and I can't figure out why." I said sitting down on the sofa putting my head in my hands.

"Do not cry Devilynn. I know this all so overwhelming but it will be clear some day."

"Will it Eraina?" I asked but Eraina could say nothing to comfort me as I looked up at her. " Everything is so screwed up. I see visions of other people, I feel strange things...I will be the end of you guys. I should have let Tanya kill me then everyone would be safe."

"Devilynn no one is safe. To this day I am not allowed to travel without Mortakie or Helena or the twins by my side. They are so afraid that my Aunt will come for me."

"Your Aunt?" Eraina nodded before she began her story. Ariana is Eraina's aunt and has been trying for centuries to bring Eraina to her side or kill her. Ariana knows that there is a strange power that emanates from Eraina and if Eraina ever figured out how to use it, Ariana would be dead.

"To this day I am unsure of what that power is or how to channel it. No one knows, it just happens. You turning into a demon last night was because of me. The goodness locked within me brings out the demons inside a vampire."

To the best of Eraina's knowledge her power is very important to the survival of humanity. Every millennium a child of light and a child of darkness is born and these two children keep the balance so the war between good and evil is a fair one. If one child is destroyed and the other lives, the balance would be broken causing complete chaos. According to Eraina, Ariana and Erica were the chosen children. Erica walked into the sun after Eraina was born to keep the balance. Ariana's destiny was to do the same but she never had a child.

"I thought Ariana was a witch?"

"That is how we explain her powers. No one knows what she truly is."

"So if Ariana had a kid there would be an unusual balance of evil right. So why doesn't she have a bunch of kids rather than trying to destroy vampires and half-breeds?"

"She does not wish to give up her powers. If she had a child the power would transfer over and she would become a weaker version of her former self. I know all this sounds strange and impossible to believe. I myself still don't understand it, none of it."

The disadvantage to Eraina was the she had no idea how to use her powers, Ariana does. She tried for many years to figure them out but to no avail.

"Why not ask your mom?"

"Like everything in life it is a mystery that has to be figured out on your own to truly understand it. Those were my mother's words to me about thirty years ago in a dream."

"Wow everyone talks in riddles about self-awareness. I feel like I'm in an AA meeting." Eraina only smiled as she rose to leave.

"Wait! I still have so many questions."

"Of course you do but time passes fast even for an immortal and you must be on your way to find the answers you seek. Besides the twins are waiting downstairs to take me to Mortakie who will begin to wonder where I am. Seek the answers Devilynn but the truth is in you." Eraina finished as she disappeared from my sight. I laughed and shook my head.

"You always see the good in all the bad."

"Yes Rick," I said turning toward the bedroom door where he stood, "That's why we dated as long as we did."

"You are snappy tonight. I was hoping you would be as loving as you were yesterday."

"Don't hold your breath." I said throwing myself on the sofa as I closed my eyes.

"I know it's hard baby but that's the price you pay for eternal life."

"I'm not a killer!" I sobbed pulling my hands away from my face. I was kneeling on the floor with a young girl dead before me. I stroked her hair as the tears streamed down my face. "I am not this evil, Dine. I never was."

"You will get used to it. Ariana promised us great power and eternal life where we won't be hunted by the slayers. Don't you want to be with me forever?"

"I do but the other names on that list. Some of them are my friends and relatives."

"You won't have to kill them I will." My eyes snapped open to see Rick standing over me. These visions I was having had to be from Tanya and it made me feel sorry for her even if she tried to kill me. Rick and I sat for some time debating on what we should do. The elders said we had to go out and seek answers for ourselves but where would we even begin. Rick suggested looking around the village and talking to various people. Shrugging I grabbed my jacket and headed out the door. It was a breezy night and the wind whipped at my coat as I struggled to close it around me. We turned left on Eight Street and headed to the west side. The night glistened in all its beauty before me. People passed us by and their thoughts floated through my mind like a gentle breeze. We entered a club on Third Avenue. The loud thrashing music poured from the stage where a punk band was playing. Rick looked around and spotted a young man in a dark corner smoking a cigarette and drinking a beer.

We walked up to him and the guy looked at Rick with wide eyes before bolting out of the club. Rick took hold of me and rushed out of the club. We flew into the clouds and hovered over the black shadow that tried to run from us. The wind whipped through my body as people and lights passed in a flashing blur. Rick released me as the shadow stopped in an alleyway, trapped. I jumped to the ground and gained my composure as Rick grabbed the guy by his throat. The man hissed baring his fangs trying to intimidate Rick.

"We have some questions for you my friend."

"I know nothing."

"You are one of Dine's men. You must know something of Ariana's plight?"

"He knows nothing Rick." Rick turned to me as his eyes glowed red. I also turned to see Ariana standing right behind me.

"Devilynn get over here." Rick commanded. I tried to run but Ariana grabbed my arm and twisted it behind my back making me cry out in pain.

"She goes where I tell her. You know much about me child but not enough. I give you fair warning now. Stay out of my way or I will kill you." Ariana whispered in my ear before pushing me away.

"Stop it!" Eraina screamed as she jumped at Ariana and sank her fangs into her neck. Ariana screeched as she tried to pull Eraina off of her. A light began to radiate from Eraina as it consumed Ariana bathing her in white. Ariana fell to the floor motionless as the light engulfed her disintegrating her body. Eraina fell to the floor shaking. I knelt down beside her and held her.

"All these centuries and it was I that had the power to stop her. So many lives could have been saved so much sorrow." Laughter rang out through the ally as Ariana appeared to Rick's left.

"Eraina. You should know that I am not that easy to kill. I am a force of nature. I choose when I die and pass my powers on to another. I thank you for dispatching of the last person on my list." Ariana said laughing as the darkness covered us in a thick blanket. The smoke choked us as it cleared away. The man and Ariana's double were gone.

"I have killed another innocent. Oh the light within me is not enough to stop that woman's treachery!"

"Eraina it was not your fault. You were trying to save me and many others."

"There are no more. All but two on her list were destroyed. The war will be unbalanced, evil will have its way."

"What two? Who are they? If we find them then they could help us." I said shaking Eraina. She looked up at me with tears in her amber gray eyes.

"You and Rick were the ones she was after. Your parents were of a very powerful line that ruled much of Spain from the dark ages until now." Eraina sobbed before disappearing.

"No! Eraina you can't leave. You hate treachery, well I hate bullshit and that's all everybody is feeding me! Shit!" I screamed as the tears streamed down my face. Rick ran over to me and held me tight as I shuddered in his grasp.

"That is where we have to go Devilynn. We will find the answers by tracking your ancestors in Spain."

"Rick. I never knew my parents. They died in a fire not long after I was born."

"Your guardian must know something."

"She was killed in a car crash when I turned eighteen. There's no one left to give me the clues I need to track my bloodline."

Just like that the game was over. Ariana made sure that she erased any ties that would lead me back to my ancestors. It seemed that Mortakie and his crew were the only good vampires left. Eraina had powers she was unsure of and Rick and I didn't know much about our new generation of vampires. I had a strange feeling that evil was going to win this so called war. I pulled away from Rick and ran back toward the subway station. I headed underground and searched the tunnels trying to find Belinda or any of the other werewolves. Some one has got to have the answers. Rick appeared in front of me startling me half to death.

"What are you doing here?"

"Listen anything we do we do together."

"I can't trust you Rick. You haven't told me shit about your time in Europe and if what Eraina said is true then your parents were vampires too. Who are they really and who are you?"

"You are right. I owe you an explanation." Rick said turning me around. As we made our way back to his basement apartment Rick filled me in on everything he knew. One day Rick got a letter in the mail asking him to come to England for awhile because someone had information on his mother. Rick never knew his mother growing up because she died in childbirth according to his father. He thought the letter was a joke until Rosella and Miranda paid him a visit in a club one night. They told him to come to England to meet with Mortakie and learn about his birthright. Rick thought the girls were on some serious drugs until they showed him a picture of his mother that was taken close to three hundred years ago. Intrigued Rick was on the next flight out with Miranda and Rosella. They took him to a club where there were many vampires, where Rick would be safe. Him and Mortakie sat and spoke for quite some time about Seline, Rick's mother.

She was the first vampiric child to be born after the last war they fought in. Seline's father died fighting on the side of evil while her human mother carried her in her womb. Her father, Marcus thought his vampiric evil would be passed on to his child because his entire bloodline was tainted by evil but Seline was saved from a life of evil when Leviticus turned her. Between the goodness in her mother's heart and the mixing of pure vampiric blood Seline was saved. She aided Mortakie and the others in tracking down half-breeds and turning them toward the side of good. Ariana was unhappy with this and planned an attack on Seline. The others were warned by an apparition known as Kasandra and fled to America before anything could happen.

A few decades later Seline met Samuel and the two were married. A few years later they had Rick. Word came from England that the half-breeds they turned were being annihilated at a rapid pace. Mortakie and the others headed back to England leaving Leviticus and Athena to look after Seline. Rick was almost a month old when the slayers attacked Seline while her husband and child slept. They drove a stake through her heart and dragged her up to the rooftop where she was burned by the sun. Leviticus and Athena were also attacked that night by slayers but they managed to fight them off and rush to Seline's home to find out that she was killed. Samuel was in tears as Athena spoke to him, she entered his mind and created the story that he told Rick. Samuel never knew what his wife was or what his son would become. Mortakie and the others returned to England to keep Ariana busy by sending her mixed signals about the locations of the other half-breeds all the while masking the fast growing generation of half-breeds in the United States.

It worked for awhile but then Ariana caught on when Mortakie and the others returned to the states to check on Leviticus and Athena. She had them ambushed and they fled back to England once more. Leviticus and Athena stayed behind to keep Ariana from tracking the new half-breeds. They ran out of time when Ariana created a new legion of vampires to track them down and kill them. Once they became werewolves they were able to find others that lay dormant for so long. Athena sent word to Mortakie that Rick was in danger. Mortakie brought Rick to England to turn him and protect him.

"So why did you come back two years later Rick?"

"Mortakie had said that there were others in danger and needed our help. I never dreamed for a moment it was you. Mortakie saw you one night and fell in love with you. He's the one that asked me to bring you to the cafe and keep you safe. He said that Ariana would go through you to get to me."

"So he didn't tell you I was a half-breed?"

"No. Helena said that they could not interfere with fate and had to let destiny take its course." Rick finished as we entered his apartment. Sitting down on his sofa I closed my eyes for a moment.

"I don't understand why the second one on your list is so important Ariana."

"Dine! If she ever found out who her parents were we are finished."

"Ariana, there is no one here to change her."

"No excuses! The daughter of Satan and a demonic vampire is very strong. She could destroy you just by looking at you."

"Now you're over exaggerating."

"Think what you may Dine. True a vampire cannot drain another but a demonic vampire can. The fire in a demonic vampire is enough to incinerate you. Trust me I have seen it done and it is not a painless death. You know nothing of why you are here. Just do as you are told."

My eyes snapped open as Rick stared at me confused. Ariana's words to Dine echoed in my head.

"I have to find a demonic vampire." I said bolting up from the couch and opening the door. I was thrown back by a powerful force and hit the wall. Shaking my head I focused through the blurriness to see about twenty vampires holding Rick down as they beat him and drained him. I got up to go after them and was grabbed by several vampires that bit at my arms and neck. Desperately I tried to wrench free as my eyes glowed and my fangs came out. My heart began to beat rapidly and my skin began to burn. Some of the vampires that held me backed away in fear as I transformed into a vampiric demon. Growling I threw the other vampires aside. I flew at the other vampires and began to snap their necks left and right. Those that bit me were torn to shreds and some were bled dry by the hunger that consumed my being. In a red flash of rage I managed to destroy thirty vampires. When the carnage ceased I turned back to normal and knelt down by Rick. He looked up at me and smiled. He was barely alive. Closing my eyes I reached out to Mortakie and the others but they never came as the minutes ticked by.

THE TRUTH HURTS

I knew I had to burn the bodies of these vampires or else they would come back as werewolves. I ran to Rick's kitchen cabinet and grabbed every flammable cleaner I could find. Dousing the undead in bleach, ammonia and lighter fluid I lit a match and let it fall. The apartment went up in flames as I grabbed Rick and carried him out into the cold. As I ran I could hear the distant sirens wail. Tears filled my eyes as loneliness consumed my heart. I went back to my apartment and laid Rick down on the couch. He closed his eyes as I lit a cigarette and paced.

"What fucking good are you guys if you won't come when I need you. Now that we are vampires you think we could fend for ourselves. Bullshit! We need you as much as you need us. Belinda where are you, I need you."

"All you ever have to do is call. I promised you that." Belinda said as she entered my apartment. I ran to her and held her tight.

"Where is everyone?"

"They are busy disposing of the bodies of the vampires that attacked them. Devilynn there were hundreds of them. We were called in to help them, there were many casualties, too many."

"Who's dead?"

"Almost everyone. Leviticus was burned to ashes. Helena was badly drained but she should be all right. Mortakie, Eraina, and Athena are well. So are both sets of twins. How's Rick?"

"They got us pretty good too, there was about thirty of them and I just lost it. I transformed again and ripped them apart then I set the place on fire."

"Ah. Yes I could see that from the rooftops as I was casting their ashes to the wind. That's when I heard you call my name and came running." Ariana was definitely making her presence known and her intentions clear. She wanted all threats to her disposed of so she could win this war and I definitely wasn't going to let that happen. Belinda and I took Rick back underground where the others were. Eraina sobbed in the corner shoving away anyone that came toward her.

"She has suffered a great loss. Everyone she's ever loved is dead now and she's stuck in an existence she hates." Belinda whispered in my ear before taking Rick over to Helena to be cared for. Taking a deep breath I walked over to Eraina and knelt beside her.

"I know exactly how you feel. My parents died when I was young and my guardian was taken from me a few years ago, Rick left me not long after that. It's hard to keep the light inside you burning bright when all you are consumed by is darkness." Eraina stopped sobbing and looked at me.

"You are absolutely right but I am unsure of how much longer I can hold on."

"I know it's hard Eraina but that's exactly what Ariana wants to do to you. If she can break your will and extinguish the light inside you then there would be no one to stop her. You are the key to ending Ariana and this war." Eraina rose and walked away. It burned me at how passive everyone was being about everything that happened. Rising I walked into the middle of the abandoned station and looked at everyone. They all seemed beaten and wanting to run and hide for the next millennium.

"All right listen up guys! I'm tired of being attacked, it's time to change the tempo of this beat and start attacking her. Now I know that there is a time and place for everything and our destinies are mapped out for us but I say fuck it! Let's make our own destiny."

The others just looked at me like I had six heads. Eraina walked forward and stood beside me.

"Devilynn is right." Eraina said as she took hold of my hand.

"You are mad!" Mortakie said as he rose from Rick's side.

"Am I Mortakie? For centuries I followed you around and trusted in your empty words. I love you and Helena but the both of you have kept me in the darkness for too long. I want to walk in the light."

"What are you saying Eraina?"

"Ariana has to be stopped." Eraina said.

"Eraina we need to gather our forces. It will take some time to heal Rick." Helena added.

"Will it?" Eraina said as she walked over to Rick and knelt down. She turned and motioned for me to follow her. I knelt down beside Rick and looked into his tired eyes. Eraina grabbed my wrist and cut it open with her nail.

"Eraina stop!" Helena said making her way over to us. Eraina waved her hand and knocked Helena back against the wall. She took my wrist and put it to Rick's lips. He took hold of it and began to drink. I could feel the blood flow out of me and into Rick's mouth. Memories floated pass me and into Rick. Eraina took her right wrist and cut it with her nail. She put her wrist to my lips and I drank. Visions floated pass my eyes and into my heart as my veins began to burn and my muscles spasm. We fed on one another for a few moments before we were pushed aside by Mortakie and Athena. The light that surrounded us disappeared and the darkness closed in. Eraina rose and slapped Mortakie across the face.

"How dare you stop me!"

"You cannot mix your blood with the new breeds. Devilynn knows everything now. She had to figure it out on her own."

"How when everyone she knows is dead? She cannot trace her family back."

"Yes she can." Athena said stepping forward. Eraina looked at Athena then at me. I stood up as Athena made her way over to me. She gently took hold of my hands and looked into my eyes. A light flashed before my eyes.

Athena was sitting on a bench by the water at the South Street Seaport staring out at the city blanketed in darkness. She smiled as she looked down at the bundle of joy in her arms. A baby with thick red hair cooed and giggled as a tiny hand reached out to grasp Athena's finger. The baby took hold of her finger and smiled.

Shadows lingered behind her watching Athena waiting for the perfect moment to strike. Athena sensed this and disappeared with the child in her arms. The other shadows chased her cornering her in an alleyway. Athena backed herself against the wall as Dine and the other closed in. Athena transformed into a demon with the child still in her arms and attacked the vampires that ran towards her. She killed most of them before Dine was able to drive a stake through her heart. Athena growled before flying away with the child. She kept flying until the sun began to rise over the horizon. Athena landed and transformed back to her human form. Quickly she tore the door open to a mausoleum and went in to hide away from the fast approaching daylight.

At dusk she rose and wandered the cemetery stopping at a woman's grave. She looked around as she placed the child on the ground and waited. A woman came out of the shadows.

"You called for me Athena."

"I need you to keep her for me. Ariana is getting too close. You were always such a good friend to me all these years Lane."

Lane smiled as she knelt down and picked up the child.

"Don't worry about your little girl. I will keep her safe." Lane said as she kissed Athena goodbye and left with the child. The light flashed again and I was back in the station. Athena looked at me with tears streaming down her face.

"Is this a joke? Those were real memories you were showing me?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

"I am your past, your ancestor, your mother." Athena sobbed. I felt like the wind had been knocked out of me as I tried to gasp for breath. Athena held me tight.

"Close your eyes and see for yourself." Athena said as she kissed my forehead. It was after the last war and Satan came to demand Athena's presence back in hell as part of the deal Mortakie made with the Devil. Reluctant Athena went and passed many centuries in hell. One day while Athena slept Satan entered her bedroom and raped her. As Athena laid there badly bruised Satan just laughed.

"I cast you out of hell now. Guard the abomination in your womb with your life or I will make your existence a living hell."

Athena was thrown out of hell to modern day earth. She managed to track down Mortakie and he took care of her. One night they were attacked by slayers and had to flee to the United States where Ariana would not be able to find them. Athena stayed behind with Leviticus while the others returned to England. Not long after Athena gave birth to me. Dine and his men attacked her about three months later. I shook my head and looked at Athena. I wanted to see my mother with my own eyes. Her eyes were green and her hair was red, it was like looking into a mirror. I shook my head as it began to swarm with thoughts.

"Wow. Did you guys get all of that? Were they able to see what you showed me?"

"They didn't have to see it, they lived it." Athena said as she rose and helped me up. Rick was standing and looking better than ever.

"What's up?" Rick asked when he saw the tears in my eyes.

"Let's see Rick. I just met my mother and the Devil is my father. That explains my name and the flaming red hair." I said smiling. Rick looked at me like I was really starting to lose it. Mortakie went on to explain everything I saw. Rick sat down on the ground when Mortakie finished and took a deep breath. I laughed.

"So Devilynn is one powerful chick. You're like what 90% demon and 10% vampire? Wicked." Belinda said as she lit a cigarette.

"I guess so. Why would Satan rape you then toss you out with his kid?" I asked my mother. Athena explained that Satan hated Ariana. Satan tried many times to bring Ariana over to his side but she was her own force and refused to take a side. Satan explained that Ariana would be the undoing of earth's balance and would end all existence as we know it.

"That's all he told you?"

"I'm afraid so. Your father is the Devil and he's a secretive man."

"Well he's gotta give me some answers. I need to find him."

"You cannot find your father, he must come looking for you." Athena said as a wall of flame erupted in front of me. Athena went to enter it but she was thrown back. I heard a voice in my head telling me not to be afraid and enter the flames. Slowly I walked through and made it to the other side unharmed. I looked around to see broken platforms with fire shooting out around them. I stood on the larger platform and turned to see the Devil himself in all his glory before me. His body was large, muscular and red as brimstone. His face was carved in stone and drenched in evil while his thick black horns raised to the sky in triumph. Satan smiled at my dumbfounded expression.

"Welcome my child. I know this is all overwhelming but it's home."

"Um I have some questions for ya pop." Satan roared with laughter.

"You have my sense of humor."

"And my mother's low tolerance for bullshit."

"Right to the point. So you want to know why Satan would father a child. I fathered many but you were the most important. I have my place in the scheme of things and cannot become the evil that balances out the good. Since Ariana refuses to birth a child of darkness she has thrown off the balance and has the advantage in the war. I do appreciate her dispatching most of these vampires for me but now she is after my army and I cannot have that."

"So what are you getting at?" Satan went on to explain that since Ariana didn't bear a child of darkness Satan had to do it. Ariana reveled in her evil for so long that she was quickly becoming a force to be reckoned with on both sides. It seemed that Ariana could not be destroyed unless there was a child born of darkness to take her place. Satan raped a demonic vampire so she would give birth to a demon full of untapped evil. If this evil existed in the world than Ariana could be destroyed without upsetting the balance. That's why Athena got rid of me. Ariana couldn't find me because I was more demon than vampire but as long as Athena cared for me Ariana would be able to find her.

"Wait. I'm the one that can stop Ariana, not Eraina."

"I never said that my child. Now that you have been turned into a vampire and tasted the pure blood of goodness your powers will increase. You will become the darkness to Eraina's inner light then Ariana can be destroyed."

"How do we kill her if we can't even find her?"

"Evil always finds evil. Thanks for coming to visit your old man." Satan finished as flames shot up around me. I was back in the station. Everyone was looking at me wondering what happened. Quickly I went into everything that happened.

"So our exchange of blood was not a bad thing then?"

"No Eraina it wasn't. Taking part of your light into me will subside the tremendous evil in me. From what I understand if I were pure evil than I would be no better than Ariana." The others just stared at me as silence continued to fill the room. For once in their lives Mortakie and Helena had nothing to say about what was going on.

LIGHT VS DARKNESS

We all sat around in silence. Each person was contemplating some kind of scheme or mystery. I closed my eyes for a second to clear my head. Ariana's face loomed before me. Her black hair and dark eyes shadowed most of her face. She smiled.

"Come and join me. Together we shall rule the heavens and the earth and hell." My eyes snapped open. Eraina turned to me and her eyes locked with mine.

We must go. You and I can defeat her. I nodded and crept out of the station and met Eraina above ground.

"All right. How do we find her?"

"I am not too sure." Eraina said as she started walking. I followed her looking around for anyone suspicious. We turned the corner and came face to face with Rick and Belinda.

"What do you ladies think you are doing?" Rick asked with a smile. Eraina and I glanced at each other momentarily.

"What ever you are up to we want to be part of it." Belinda added as she took a drag of her cigarette. Eraina nodded and continued walking. I went to follow her but Rick pulled me back. He turned me to face him and looked deep into my eyes.

"Devilynn. I am sorry that you had to become part of this. I just want you to know that I have always loved you and will continue to for all eternity." Rick said as he pulled me to him and kissed me. I pulled away and taking his hand we ran to catch up to Belinda and Eraina. The four of us walked in silence lost in our own thoughts. There was so much for me to think about that I couldn't keep anything straight. I wanted to pinch myself to see if I was dreaming. This wasn't your ordinary everyday occurrence and it takes a toll on a person. We turned the corner and I stopped. Rick turned around and called after the other two.

"What's wrong Devilynn?" Belinda asked concerned.

"I don't know but I can't seem to move for some strange reason." I said crying out in pain as my body began to burn. Flames shot up around me encasing me in its infernal embrace, sophicating me before disappearing.

"I know the trip here is quite awkward but I have a reputation to uphold." Satan said as he roared with laughter.

"Why did you bring me here?"

"Unfinished business my dear offspring." Satan said pointing to my left. I looked to see Athena standing there. She smiled and made her way over to me.

"You have tasted the blood of four vampires and therefore have transformed into one. Of course part of you is a demon but not enough to become the next child of darkness." Athena said taking hold of my hand and leading me toward Satan's throne.

"But I was born out of evil?"

"Of course you were. However a half-breed becomes a vampire when there is an exchange of blood from another vampire. You will become a full demon when you exchange blood with one." Satan said. I looked up at my father as the truth began to settle in. I was only 60% demon because I tasted the blood of vampires and they have tasted mine. The only way to balance it out would be to remove most of the vampiric blood and replace it with demonic blood, the blood of my father. Nodding I stepped up to the throne as Satan held out his arm for me. The hunger in me grew as my fangs came out and my eyes turned red. Athena took hold of my left arm and sank her fangs into my wrist. I cried out in pain before sinking my fangs into my father.

The taste of his blood sent balls of fire shooting through my entire body. It was sour and full of evil, hate, deception and greed. After a few minutes of feasting Athena pulled away from my arm as I pulled away from Satan's. I fell at his feet writhing in pain as the demon blood coursed through me. It shook my body and crushed my heart. A storm of bitter emotions battled with the bit of good that was left inside me. When the pain stopped I rose and looked at my father and mother standing side by side.

"So what am I now?" I asked Athena.

"Evil in it's purest of form, aside from your father of course. You are more powerful then I ever was. You, my child, are now a demonic vampire." Athena said smiling.

"I thought I was one."

"What your mother means is that you are now 1% vampire. The rest of you is a demon. You have more evil within you then Ariana could ever hope to have. The balance will not be altered once she is destroyed. You have very little time left. Ariana must die." Satan said as flames shot up around me once more sending me back to the street. Rick ran up to me.

"Where did you go? You just disappeared." Rick asked as he put his arm around me. I looked at all of them before locking eyes with Eraina. She nodded at me before turning around and continuing to walk. At the end of the block we turned the corner down to the alley where the vampire club was located. It was almost sunrise and we had about an hour to take care of business. I transformed into a demon and ripped the door open. The four of us stepped on to the empty dance floor. We made our way over to the bar. Eraina picked up one of the bar stools and tossed it at all the liquor bottles smashing them and the mirror behind it. Rick jumped over the counter and smashed every glass that was behind the bar.

Belinda went over to the couches and started to claw at them. I went to the basement and trashed all the offices, ripping papers and smashing furniture. When the offices were completely annihilated I headed upstairs where Eraina was sitting by the bar writing a note.

Bring us Ariana or we will return tomorrow night to finish the job. Rick took a knife and stabbed the note so it would stay on the counter. Eraina and Rick turned into shadows and left as Belinda turned into a wolf and ran. In my demonic form I flew up and smashed through the roof, concrete crashing to the dance floor. The four of us headed back to the subway and went underground. When we returned to the station the others looked at us.

"Have you all lost your minds? Your actions are altering destiny. You cannot do this." Helena said her voice raising a few octaves.

"Eraina we fought our war, we cannot interfere with this one." Mortakie added as he stepped up to her. Eraina's eyes clouded over.

"Yes we fought our war and won but I still have some battles to fight. I have battled with my feelings for you for centuries and now I have to fight this battle with Ariana. She must be stopped." Eraina said.

"I do not want to lose you Eraina. After all I went through to have you...the light inside me will die if you were to leave my side." Mortakie said taking hold of her hand. Eraina just smiled before heading into an alcove to get some sleep. Mortakie followed her in silence. Helena went to another alcove. Belinda sat on the sofa next to Athena and lit a cigarette. Rick and I sat down on the couch across from them.

"I know this is all strange for you and yet you handle it all so well. I was a mess when I found out the truth about who I was."

"Well mom, growing up in New York City does that to ya. I mean you see so much weird stuff everyday that nothing seems to surprise you anymore." I said as Belinda and Rick laughed. Athena nodded and smiled as she lay back and closed her eyes. I sat up for sometime afraid to close my eyes because I might have another vision or nightmare.

THE END

There was something different about the air we breathed the next night as we all rose from our slumber. The elders were not at ease as different voices flooded their minds from the vampires at the club. It seemed that what we did last night caught their attention and they were willing to give up Ariana to save their miserable existences. Eraina smiled in delight as she looked at me but there was a pit of fear growing in my stomach. I wasn't having second thoughts about what we had to do but at the cost of our future actions toward those we cared for.

"You have got your wish. Tred carefully." Helena warned before turning toward Mortakie and Leviticus. The three of them turned away and disappeared. Eraina turned to us.

"It is time. You do not have to come if you do not wish to."

"I'm going with you Eraina." I said.

"Rick and I are going too." Belinda added. Eraina nodded and the four of us left to go to the vampire club. We walked there in silence hoping that we were not walking into a trap. The club was quiet as thirty vampires waited by the bar for us. We entered slowly looking around. One of the vampires came forward.

"We love who we are and we don't want to worry about you guys trying to kill us. You want the bitch, you got her." He said as he moved aside where Ariana was held by two other vampires, bound and gagged. They brought her forward and tossed her to the ground. I went to step forward but Eraina put out her hand to stop me.

"I do not like the looks of this." She whispered her eyes glowing red. The figure on the floor raised her head and hissed showing her fangs. The other vampires flew at us. Eraina and Rick disappeared. Belinda transformed into a wolf as several vampires attacked me. I fell to the floor as the vampires began to bite at me. The rage inside consumed me and I transformed into a demon. I looked at the vampires that were biting at me and watched them burst into flames. Growling I rose and grabbed all the vampires I could get my hands on and bit into them. Each one burst into flames and their screeching echoed through the night.

"It's a setup." I heard Rosella's voice in my head.

"Ariana attacked the others underground. We came here to get you guys." Miranda finished.

The four of us fled the club and followed the twins. The battle that raged before us there was unspeakable. There were about a hundred vampires. The werewolves, the twins, Mortakie and Helena were hard at work taking care of the vampires. The four of us joined in the skirmish. In the midst of tossing aside vampires I saw Eraina leave in a hurry. I ran away and followed Eraina back to the club. She slipped in through the side entrance in the back. Transforming back to my human form I entered the club. It was covered in ashes from the burnt vampires..

"I know you are here Ariana. Show yourself, I will not run." Eraina said looking around.

"You look so much like your mother. It's quite nausiating." Ariana said stepping out of the shadows behind Eraina. She turned to face her Aunt.

"Your time here is done Ariana."

"You are not the master of me. No one is. I say when my time is done!"

"Your time is now. I will end you."

"And how do you propose to do that Eraina. You have no conception of the powers you possess and I am tired of waiting for you to figure them out. Mortakie and the others spent so many centuries trying to protect you from me and your demise."

"You plan to destroy me then?" Ariana just smiled. "I am your flesh and blood. If it were my mother would you have done the same?"

"Foolish niece, of course I would have. Did you think you were going to change my mind or turn me from my evil ways? I am the embodiment of evil and I grow tired of seeing good rule the world."

"What would you do if evil won?" Eraina asked.  
"I would destroy the world, blanket it in eternal darkness. A world where evil can walk freely and thrive. I grow tired of good."

"It is time for you to rest now Ariana."

"I am a force of nature that cannot be stopped. A child of darkness must be born from my womb in order to end my existence." Ariana said as she grabbed Eraina by the hair and tilted her head to the side exposing her neck. "I have no such child and over the centuries my power has grown. Now I can destroy you and become Mother Nature." Ariana said as she bared her fangs and dug them into Eraina's neck. Eraina tried desperately to fight her off but Ariana was too strong. A blinding light engulfed the club as a woman clothed in white with long brown hair stepped out of it.

"You cannot kill her Ariana." The apparition warned. Ariana let go of Eraina and turned to the woman behind her. Eraina fell to the floor motionless.

"Well Erica I just did and now I will destroy you." Ariana went to lung at her but Erica put up her hand as a bright light shot out of her arm blinding Ariana. She put her hands up to shield her stinging eyes.

"I cannot see." Ariana screeched.

"And you never will." Erica said as she looked up at me. Our eyes locked for a brief second and in that moment it was clear what had to be done. Ariana had tasted Eraina's blood and her light was coursing through Ariana's veins. I had to take the darkness out of her before it could overpower the light. I lunged at Ariana and sank my fangs into her neck. She cried out in pain and tried to struggle free from my grasp. I could feel the heat on my hands as the light began to come out.

"Pull away now Devilynn before you take the light into you." Erica said. Ariana pushed me to the ground and turned in my direction. Her eyes were black and full of hatred as she slowly made her way toward me. I watched transfixed as the color of her eyes changed to blue then white. Ariana stopped and looked at her hands. Light was emanating from them and quickly spread throughout her body. Ariana turned to Erica as she started to disinigrate.

"You kill me Erica and you upset the balance of nature." Ariana said in a low raspy voice. Erica just smiled at her.

"A child of darkness was born and has destroyed you, Mother Nature." Erica said as Ariana burst into flames. Her body burned for a few moments before the flames extinguished themselves turning Ariana into ashes. Erica stepped forward and flapped her ivory wings spreading the ashes throughout the club. Slowly I rose to my feet as Ariana's blood coursed through my veins filling me with power that frightened yet fascinated me. Erica turned her attention to Eraina who was still lying on the floor. Erica knelt down beside her and cradled her in her arms. Eraina opened her eyes.

"Mother." Eraina managed to gasp.

"My baby girl. How beautiful you are." Erica said smiling at her daughter. I walked over to them.

"Is Eraina going to die?" I asked. Erica looked up at me.

"We all have a light inside of us and as long as we keep that light we can never be destroyed." Erica said as she bit her wrist with her fangs and let the blood drip onto Eraina's lips. Eraina took hold of her mother's arm and drank only what she needed to survive.

"Sleep now my child." Erica said as she lay Eraina back down on the floor. Erica rose as Mortakie walked into club. He could barely stand but he was alive. Mortakie sensed Eraina was in danger and fled to the club to be by her side. Mortakie staggered over to Eraina and lay down beside her. Erica turned to me and held out her hand to stop me from getting any closer to her.

"You are the child of darkness now. If you were to come any closer to me you would end up like my sister Ariana. The balance is safe now."

"I thought the child had to be born from Ariana to be evil."

"A child of darkness must be born every millennium regardless of who the mother is. That is the way it has always been and will always continue to be." Erica said as she disappeared in a blinding ray of light.

"Are you guys going to be alright?'

"We will now. Thank you Devilynn."

"Thank your wife Mortakie. It was all her. I just came along for the ride."

I left the club and headed back toward the abandoned tunnel to help the others. When I got there everyone was gone, there was no trace of the battle that had raged only a few hours ago.

"There isn't many of us left now." Rick said as he came up behind me. I turned and jumped into his arms.

"We got Ariana. She's dead."

"Yeah we figured as much. One minute we were outnumbered by the strength of these vampires then the next they were powerless and we destroyed them. I guess Ariana gave them more power. We just finished cleaning up the mess." Rick said as he kissed my lips.

"Eraina and Mortakie are safe." I said as we left the station and headed back to my place.

AFTER THE FACT

.The next evening Rick and I rose from the closet and went into the living room to see Mortakie and Eraina were sitting on the sofa holding each other. I knelt down before them and looked at Eraina.

"Erica, your mother, what is she?" I asked.

"My mother is something that has been unheard of, a vampiric angel. There are many others like her who have guarded their children throughout the duration of their eternity." Eraina said. The children of darkness and light are created to keep the balance of good and evil but when they die they become a weaker form of themselves. I always thought that when a vampire was destroyed by the sun or by fire that they ceased to exist entirely. That was far from the truth. The spirit would ascend or descend to its proper place and remain there until they are to be reborn and I always thought vampires had no soul. They are not the walking dead that books and movies claim them to be but a more complex version of humans. Vampires are the closest thing to God and Satan that the world will ever see.

"This is so strange. All of it." Rick said as he took my hand and helped me to my feet. Mortakie rose and helped Eraina up.

"That is the way of the world Rick. God has made it that way. No one ever truly knows the truth. Like humans, vampires are at the mercy of a power they do not comprehend. Come to the roof with us, we want to show you something." Mortakie said as he and Eraina walked out the door.

We walked up to the roof to find both sets of twins, Athena, Helena. The rest were gone. They spread themselves throughout the world to live out what was left of their destined lives. It turned out that no matter what you did, vampire or human, you are not more powerful then the forces of good and evil.

"Could we possibly be the only vampires left in this world?" Miranda asked as she held her sister tight.

"Ariana has made quite a mess of things. I have not felt the presence of a good vampire in so long. I am sure Ariana has kept some of the more powerful and evil vampires alive but we will not know until we track them down." Helena said as she put her arms around Mortakie and Eraina. The war was inevitable and fast approaching. The good guys were seriously outnumbered. A week later we all packed up and left to Europe to see if we could find some existence of vampires, werewolves or half-breeds. An army had to be rebuilt one way or another.

###########

Thanks so much for taking the time to read this story. I hope the characters have entertained you and made you want to read more about them. There will be more books to follow in the future, including a full novel of how the elder vampires came to be and the war they fought over a millennium before. Feedback is always welcomed and appreciated. It's not easy to let others into your world but I do hope you will come back and visit mine.

Connect with Me Online:

Email: Devilynn666@gmail.com

Facebook: http://facebook.com/eraine.kalinczuk

Smashwords: https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/Eraina

