 
Introduction

It is about the fear of God which is The Consciousness of True Righteousness, that one is lead on to The Ultimate Truth which is the knowledge of God. That without knowing God we simply can not serve Him; outside our morality as by divinity there is simply no humanity. For there was no way that there would be life at all, if furgetism as by today's mad world was to be the order of the day; so, divine will is our very only justice, to the entire life as a whole!

Inhere you find a number of subjects dealt in a robust, focused and concise manner in relation to our main subject matter – The Consciousness of True Righteousness. Eg why men should keep walking the face of earth, your crimes against divinity, a fearful man is a faithful man, Truth is no good for business, the eternal affairs that always remain current, Truth is more than all extremes, the son of Righteousness and lots of many more.

Here is a combination of topics that puts an end to thousands years of falsehood, marking the collapse of false religion, to usher in the era of true righteousness.

The Consciousness of True Righteousness

The question of righteousness rises a consciousness that seeks the ultimate Truth more than we could ever be preoccupied with all concerns about judgements and thus punishments. What's right, what's not; according to who? If we say God, do we really know Him? For if indeed we do, then there is no way of going wrong. But if we claim to know while in truth we don't, still The Ultimate Truth is here to expose all lairs thus putting an end to all madness.

That we have heard too much from your pastor "bling-bling" and their bishop "Dr\prophet"; look, you can fool the rest of the bloody mad world but against The Ultimate Truth all your tricks simply won't work. For we here talk the Consciousness of True Righteousness that throws you right on to the heart of the Consuming Fire! So, you best not to take chances, we are not playing games here.

When we walk in to a man's house we do not want to know who is the firstborn, who is talented or not; we get straight on to the head, upon which we land right on to the heart, of the family. Who is the Head, The Father in the Kingdom of Righteousness? When we get the answer, we know that it is Him alone the only God. And it is from Him we come to learn what is right and what is not; who are the sons and which are the "wolves".

So, it is The LORD Almighty the only Father here; we don't hear from the false prophets or your fake apostles, but from The Father, for it is only Him who is The Revealer of all mysteries.

Of course you might have managed to make a slide on your fancy pulpits with cutting-edge arguments about fake morality talking things such as, the sins, the blood, on the cross and the no punishment. But here stakes are much more higher for it is the ultimate. We do not talk punishment nor even get in to any judgement; our focus is solely on righteousness which is about holiness; and these two, are the ultimate boundaries that sends you straight back to the elementary basics. And that is how I Michael say, the Law is life, for as long as you are alive, you have no bloody choice!

So you put your cross aside and forget about somebody's blood, no one is bloody dying for anyone, we only want the Truth here. For there is no man who can say he doesn't want his claims in faith to be proved correct, instead he would prefer someone to die for him. Jy is bloody mal!

Why man should keep walking the face of earth?

It is God who brought us on to this earth, so that by Him we can live for Him, for life is all about Him. But when we take Him out of the picture, why then should we still remain? For when I Michael put my mind on to this Name LORD, I find that the word Law comes out as its core ingredient. So to lay a claim on this Name while proclaiming yourself "not under the Law", now you are going mad at us, for you obviously have no clue as to what you are talking about.

Because your lawless lives as it stands serves to accomplish nothing but only dishonour The LORD. Perhaps you do not understand what does it means to dishonour; is like someone waking up everyday to insult you for the whole bloody day. And that is precisely what all you fools live to do in this mad world of yours.

As mad as your world has now become, the question here is, why men should keep walking the face of earth? So that he may continue to dishonour The LORD by worshiping false "gods"? Or that he may smoke weed under the tree and indulge in mad-talk for the whole day? Or perhaps that they may go on chasing and shooting each other? Or get drunk and do the " kwasa " dance to his " stipa " mad - tunes around naked weman?

It is the Law that tell us what is right, and that is the Truth

Forgiveness is essentially about regretting your wrongful deeds and willing to reform in to everlasting frames of true righteousness. In that respect your total commitment to Truth is the only prove that you are indeed sincere in your seeking forgiveness.

If you want to make things right, you do things right. But to do things right you first need to know the Truth, for it is the Truth that put to us what is right and what is not. If you say you can't work with the Law, that simply means you have no intents to do things right; so if your evil intents are that blatant, what then could still be done with your such? For it is the Law that tell us what is right and that is the Truth.

When he was tempted on the mountain with the devil's offer, he Jesus depended on nothing but what was written in scriptures, which was pretty much the Law. I mean it was with the Law that Jesus was able to overcome what I could say to be the ultimate of all temptations. How does this world now agree when Paul says the Law accomplishes nothing while we here have evidence in abundance proving the opposite?

An attack on God's Law is an attack on The LORD God Himself

An attack on God's Law is greater than any form of violence oppression that could ever be perpetrated against the rest of humanity, for an attack on God's Law is an attack on The LORD God Himself.

"Ministry of death which was engraved on the letter of stone" Corinthians 2;3:7 "weak and miserable principles" Galatians 4;9. "meaningless talk" Timothy 1; 1 ; 6, "a curse" Galatians 3:10. "We were held in prisoners by the law", Galatians 3,23. These are the core of what Paul says about God s holy commands, and he calls this the "good news".

This what you should understand, you can not speak against what I say and still think yourself not referring to me; if I say something and in response you say that to be foolishness, in effect you have just called me a fool.

Paul s villain attack on God s Holy Law is a blatant insult on the face of the entire holy heaven, a direct assault on God s Divine Being. His claims of serving Jesus just does not hold for the evidence as in Luke 16;17, Mark 7;8 and Mathew 19;17 clearly proves that Jesus did not teach against God s holy Law. So, the position of Jesus based on the abovementioned scriptures is of the complete opposite to that of Paul with his "not under the law" doctrine – more of a direct contradiction between the two.

If the rebels could manage to live in wickedness by declaring themselves "not under the Law", then the rest of the world could just live in madness by pretending as if God does not exist.

The eternal affairs that always remain current

You see how people read newspapers everyday, some listening to radio news on almost every hour, others sitting to watch news every night; so as not to loose touch with the world around. I tell you when it comes to righteousness, God's holy commands stand out as eternal affairs.

When a man has no knowledge of the world around, that man can simply not have an opinion about world affairs. But how does a wicked prank with no God's Law at heart come to make so much noises about divine matters and manage to get his mad-talk listened for over 2000 years?

To be in tune with what by heaven is to be here done is by keeping in your heart God's commands. For these commands are the eternal affairs that always remain current, our only means upon which we come to rise and catch the waves of divine will.

For as long as it is God s earth, then only His Law stands

When the Truth is at stake, a righteous man seeks no healing for himself but only wants justice, nothing but divine justice!

For hundred and hundreds of years wicked men with corrupt hearts have made big names for themselves, some gaining millions in riches by preaching, writing and even publishing lies about The Most High. Now that The Ultimate Truth is here, these breed of fake hearts and all those who continue to benefit out of this conspiracy would want to deliberately turn a blind eye to the rising sun, pretending as if all is okay, 'it is business as usual'. I tell you that is not going to bloody happen! For this is the ultimate!

For as long as it God's earth then only His Law stands. And that is a bloody given! There is no way you could get in to any man s yard when you are asked, what are you here for? Then you say, 'I am doing my own business', or , 'I am just talking a walk'. On Whose yard? Are you bloody mad?!

Imagine you being a father, and have your house turned in to a brothel, by your very own kids. When you speak they say it is our bodies therefore our business. On Whose house? Nonsense, julle is bloody mal!

Truth is life without which even blood is for nothing. So no one is going to pretend as if he belong to the "special branch" and The Ultimate Truth is not him. The foolishness of a wicked man could get him to think, the Truth of God and the will of divine purpose is not enough fascinating, 'I want an interesting tale to entertain myself with'. What? Are you five year old? For there is no man who could still be wanting to be entertained with some ferries while heaven is here raging up in smoke.

As for me I can't lie, I am struggling to breathe because of this "not under the Law" garbage expedition. Things are so such as it feels I have no right to put food on my mouth.

It is not about the punishment of the wicked, it is about the holiness of God

When you walk in to your house and you find that there is an infestation, let say cockroaches, you simply get a Doom and kill the whole bloody cockroaches. And that can not be said as punishing the cockroaches, no! You are simply creating a hospitable environment for you and your family.

Maybe you guys do not know an infestation. Have you ever seen an infestation? Let say rat infestation. It is not only filthy but even worse it is creepy. You open the kitchen to find three of them staring at you like you are an intruder. When you open the capot, two of them are busy taking care of business, right inside of your rice. You go on to the bedroom one just jump off your bed. When you switch off the lights, now they are like kids in the park.

I tell you, the wickedness of this world has become more than the worse form of rat infestation. Do you think The Holy One should put up with all of these nonsense so that you and your little rats could continue to eat pap\bread? Julle is bloody mal!

Of course you might fool yourself in to thinking that your forefathers have lived in the same madness and managed to get away with it. But wherever they are, if they see I Michael fighting with The Ultimate Truth on my right, they surely would be cursing themselves for having ever walked the face of earth, wishing that they had never given birth to you. For they would know that they have being nothing but a utter disgrace to entire course of life, exactly as you their little "rats" have now become, wicked bred!

Fooling around in false faith

We do not agree with God for we want to "get in to His good books". We agree for we believe, but we say we believe but we are not going to obey, what kind of a nonsense is that?

Faith without Truth is nothing but extramural, just for fun. The question being, can we dare to entertain ourselves by mocking God?

Imagine playing football without the rules, anyone just do what feels good or seem best to them. Ultimately no one gets to know whether it is rugby, netball or what that we are planning. For the rules establish our game and separate it from all of others. So, if we claim to live "not under the Law", we might just be fooling with ourselves, and most definitely we can not go to such extend with God, but that is exactly what others do, fooling around in false faith.

To know God is to fear God, to fear God is to obey God

To know God is to fear God, to fear God is to obey God; with obedience comes revelations of the Truth. It could only be by our disobedience that we come to lack knowledge, and only by that lack of knowledge we thus come to rebel.

If we want to obey for we have believed, we commit ourselves to the Truth of His holy commands and seek nothing fancy out of His works but only the fulfilment of His sovereign will; we obey in our vulnerabilities, and obey in our poverty; in frailties of sickness or the hardships of persecution; in rains or in drought; in shattering winds of emotional battering, or pounding waves in the floods of troubled thoughts; in the silence of deep sadness, or loud sounds of joyous praise, we just obey, obey and obey for He is God!

It Is Not about What Is Written In The Bible, But The Meanings We Choose Believe

As it stands, the bible seems a mirror of self-reflection through our inmost intentions. For being sincere, righteousness is what comes when we stand face to face with the Truth, while the crocked-ness of the godless brings them in to more wickedness.

There are a whole lot of scriptures to could be made to mean all sorts of things, but divine will is a focused purpose, it can not be turned and twisted to fits with what you want to hear\say when and where it suit you.

It is our hearts' inner aspirations and deeper inclinations that speaks more of us than anything to could be made out of our physical formations. That it is by paying more attention to the Law which is what is in God s heart that one could come to better understand the word, realizing the truth which is the knowledge of God.

Understanding works to find a right meanings which serve to establish a true purpose. A purpose is a pragmatic application of self as expressed through will. Out of these sentences we find an inherent connection between God s word and His Law; that to truly understand the word the Law comes as the only frame of reference so as not to fall in to meanings that strays from God s will.

We here establish the connection and the correctness of a particular concept by content of word composition as being associated to a relevant course of an established Character who in this case is The LORD God. Whether this word fits in to this sentence, if the sentence express this concept , does the concept espouse the purpose, this purpose carry this will as rooted in this course which conforms to the concerned Character as the Author.

A will is an expression to a Character, while a purpose is a pragmatic application of a persona by execution of a will. So what God commands to us as His people works as a reflection to His self expression. Hence righteousness, godliness, being of God s likeness.

The point where God s will could come to be understood for its truth as an expression of His Divine Being is where He makes man in His own image . Art as a form of self expression comes to be even more intimate when one put himself as an object to his work. It is for God s will that man came in to existence and it is only on it that our existence could keep being of purpose to the course of life. If we somehow find God s will less "spiritual" or not enough fanciful, we might concede our existence as being of no purpose of God s intents, we therefore might as well be considered non existent.

Some things you never get them otherwise without you going out of your mind

Out of a man came a woman, the very woman who give birth to a baby boy who grows up to being a man. But a woman stays a woman, and a man remains a man. Just as The LORD as the only God and man never grows beyond being a man. So to conflate these things only results in madness.

If a man could have another man or a goat\ plant as his "god" to worship and pray to, then there would be no way of stopping a man from having another man as his wife to sleep with.

This simply means, to have another man from anywhere, whether dead or alive, even those in the Bible, as your "god" to pray\appease or worship, is the same- or perhaps even worse than you being a man as you are taken by another man as his wife. That says you are no longer a man at all, but furg... What? I won't spell it out, you know the name!

In shunning evil we do not experiment with temptations. When The LORD say you shall not have other "gods", just keep it down to that. Do not try to be smart, for you would be exposed to being nothing but a mad-pig.

It is the words of Truth that tells if a man s heart is indeed true.

What you want is not always what God wants. So how do you know that what you have at heart does not put you at odd with God's will? Or perhaps like the smart ones who play duck and dive with divine will you too would take your chances? I mean you refuse to live by God's will as in obedience to His holy commands, but you will go to a church with all sorts of demands disguised as prayer, expecting God – The Almighty Himself to do as you wish. This rises a question as to who serve who? In fact who calls the shots?

For yours is a generation of backstabbers, the Judases of this world- bo meno masheu bolaya batshega (those who kill while smiling). So, I am not buying in to your crocodile tears on bended knees; for it is the words of Truth that tells if a man's heart is indeed true. And when your heart is not true, you can not expect The Holy One to play along with whatever you are in pursuit.

When the Law exalt only God

When the Law exalt only God, then evil would have no ground to could stage its course. But where the law exalt man, every man would want to have his moment; and when every man want to have his moment, that is where evil come to claim the day.

You can not admire God, you can not idolise Him, you can not envy or even want to be like Him; you can only be of His likeness- righteousness, and it does not get better than that.

Man of Truth knows that it is only God above, he does not know any bureaucracy nor even see any hierarchy. In him there is only one thing, The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

Your crimes against divinity

If you choose to live by ways of your own choice, you can not jump to scream oppression when some others try to impose their mad-order upon your mal kop. For your life on its own as by the ways of your own choice, is a law of your own make; that you do not enforce, hardly means it does not impact. For ultimately is both the oppressed and the oppressor who stand equal as accomplices on an even greater evil, your crimes against divinity.

That we all had a chance to make things right, but like real prostitutes you fools chose opportunism, to be hailed a hero when it suit you and cry a victim when the table turns; painting The Most High as the bad one in all fluctuations of your self made morality; and now you would want to use the corruptions of your histories, the maladies of you mad traditions and the fallacies of your false religions as an excuse to could stand in defiance against the will of divine order.

Quite frankly I Michael don't care about where you come from or what you have being through, what you need to know is that it is not about you, and that is exactly how you are going to see that life is all about Him!

A lawless man is a godless man, a godless man is a wicked man... A wicked man is a wicked man, whether he is black or white, rich or poor; even if he was to be oppressed that changes nothing; that he is wicked, says it all, that he is evil, that on its own, is worse and there is nothing to could be more.

Democracy is madness for truth has no majority

It is God alone who by Himself created the whole earth; so, His divine authority as effected by the will of His holy commands should \would never be subjected to the momentum of the day's morality as by the politics in the "law of more", for God would never be more; and His holiness speaks exactly that, that righteousness as by the Truth of His holy commands remains to be the order of the day, not for a single day, some days or most days, but for everyday and for all times; from eternity to eternity.

The politics of this world has being expediently used as an excuse for man to undermine the will of God. If a man was to fight for justice it had to be solely based on what is right, not by him and his fellows, but according to the will of Truth. Because righteousness is precisely what justice is about- what is right; not according to you and your buddies, but according to God. What is right by Him must most definitely be right for all!

If I can not defy The LORD on my own accord, there is simply no way I would disobey Him for the sake of someone else or to make way for the mass will (the majority) for that matter.

What at distance seemed democracy, only turned out in to being nothing but a "police state" when brought on to the light of Truth. For I myself have seen how these people operates, that they could just send you a "stray" bullet, to only go on to offer a public "apology", pay for a lawsuit and go on to their posh houses to drink their expensive wines. For to them it is business, they do it "for a living".

When a man runs his family affairs in a manner that violate your so called state laws, your state send these gun-yielding maniacs you call cops to clam down that man in to order. When a man runs his state in a way that violate your Geneva convention, your security council haul that fool to your Hague where they try to hang his butt.

What about your states that shamelessly runs the affairs in a manner that arrogantly violate the Will of The Creator, by going against the Law of Truth? What then? Is it because God does not have a gun? Am I Michael suppose to fear you for you have guns? Julle is bloody mal!

If you refuse to live by the Law of Truth you loose any right to could have a say in all affairs of life. For I Michael have seen, that behind all these superficial sophistications of your so called "constitutions", you have nothing but evil as your last resort; that you would kill to keep your mad gig alive.

God's Law is the only Law under which there is no room for some liberal barbarism

I myself, have kept mum, groaning in silence like a moot man, but a wicked man whose breath smells evil walk around from the moment he wakes, bearing on his filthy lips, the holy Name of The Almighty God; using it as a rag that wipes-off the guilt of his conscience from his indulgence in evil living. I myself say we can not get along, and we can not even coexist.

Your barbaric democracy say you can just vote for your fellow wicked man, and go on to live "a better life", free from God's very own holy Law, while you bloody walking on His very own earth? I Michael say julle is bloody mal!

To disobey The LORD is to defy God, to defy God is to demean Him; when you demean God you insult me. That I should be this insulted on daily basis and still be expected to smile in return, you see what that is? Madness. For your evil life's as it is, is a great torture to me. Perhaps to you all does not matter, but to me He is my whole life. So there is no whatsoever grounds for us to could be friendly.

I mean if I wake up on a Saturday to only find a wicked man carrying his pixel in his foolish carefree attitude going on about his business, what do I say to that? For to greet that pig is more like saying, it is okay for him to do what he is doing- defying The Most High.

Whatever is done on God's sight come to fall right on to my face. When The LORD is not pleased, I too should feel the heat, and when you mention the Name LORD I Michael simply fall in the mix. The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

Our self worth comes out of God's worth

It is not that you were taught lies, but you where rather taught how to lie to yourself. And that you now have become an expert of walking in the darkness of your false faith, says it all, for some things you never get them that well unless you like them that much. And if you like them that much, that simply means they are pretty much who you are.

For our self worth only comes out of God's worth. Righteousness is all we have in God's holiness. But when The LORD Almighty continue to be dealt in so much disdain, what good can we possibly teach or talk among ourselves?

And now you have assumed the lead, pretending to know the way, whereas your are just as blind as the rest of all mad-fools who listen to all these falsehood. For it is those who profess and practice these madness, these are not only wicked but they hold high the banners of all evil. And would walk around cocky as if they are worth it, while all they hold is nothing but boganka ba boikaketsi.

For when I Michael saw all these, I went and looked around, and found there was no "self" at all. How can I claim to be something whereas God- The Creator and The Maker of all is treated as if He was nothing? That I could be taught good by those who speak His holy Law as a "curse"?

The world's greatest form of thuggery

The making of God s Law is so such that there is no life outside Him. Its working serves only to uphold this Truth, and this is the basics of life when we begin to tell the Truth; for that is how things are set as by divine purpose. So, to do otherwise is to rebel against the will of divine order, to only denigrate on holy integrity.

Divine will does not work in half measures; that you can not take out of God s Law certain aspects to only use them to establish your own makeshift system of governance, while alienating \ rejecting the core ones that serves to acknowledge Him as the Head above all.

If you take out of my ID its picture to only put yours, and use it to further your own ends, that in your so called "laws" is crime, prosecutable; for you would be misusing my name, my identity. The heart of the Law is Truth, that The LORD is one, He alone is the only God. So the Law can not be used to further any other end except that as inhere expressed.

For if we were to say, you "smart ones" take out of your makeshift systems of governance any aspect which is of God's Law, you fools would be left with nothing but madness for your so called "constitutions".

And now you have hired these paid killers you call cops, giving these mad-fools guns and all sort of things to enforce these forgeries, and that is the greatest form of thuggery. For there is no way man of Truth could be ruled by a mad-mob, even if they were to be the "majority".

That while you fools continue to live your lives in the wickedness of lawlessness, even your majority has nothing to it but madness. And now I Michael have to sit and watch these furgets, running around and caring guns, saying I must raise my hands so they search me?!

When a man of "superior " colour oppresses the one of not his colour, that you call apartheid and the world goes to scream about it. When a rich guy pushes around your "little man", you hypocrites rant and rave about it. But when a wicked man or wicked men for that matter wants to reign or prevail upon a righteous man, I tell you that is beyond all extremes – that is straight out madness!

The stone the builders rejected has become a cornerstone

They talk big, in bold barbarism about building their communities and building their so called nations. I mean if indeed we are to build we first need to start with the foundation, without which whatever we are on to would simply come to crush on us if we ourselves do not bring it down.

Perhaps with the growth in world population things going around seven billions fools have become more, thus think they would like their democracy, override the will of divine order by the majority of mad-fools. If the rebels could manage to live in wickedness by declaring themselves "not under the Law", then the rest of the world could just live in madness by pretending as if God does not exist.

Let me here tell you, there is no better nonsense or any new nothing to be build here on God s earth free from His holy commands. That is not going to bloody happen! For this is what I Michael want, I want to see the total destruction of everything about this world; all institutions and establishments that has elevated man to the point of thinking he can exist here on God s earth free from His holy Law, I want to see or hear them no more, for God is fearsome and there is no child s play when it comes to that- this is the Consuming Fire!

Those who reject The Father can not claim him "the son"

There are some things we never come to understand them until we get to do them; and when we do them, we do, not because we see them being done by others; but we do them for they are part of who we are, not as a quest for personal identity, but as of reflection to character born out of purpose of True Will which we have come to be, by it being, for we were meant to be, of its Being.

And this is what Jesus said, "I am in The Father, just as The Father is in me". What does that say? It simply means those who reject The Father can not claim him "the son". And the Truth remains, that to acknowledge The Father is to obey His Law. And that is exactly how He says, "if they obey My commands, they shall be My people and I will be their God".

Even Jesus in his all portrayed perfection showed moment of weakness, need and sense of insufficiency when by God s will he was called\ exposed to more. He Jesus did not exudes the foolish complacency demonstrated by these arrogant bunch of ignorant hypocrites who claim to follow him and have their lives modelled around him.

And now in the foolishness of their corrupt professions and the evilness of their rebellious conduct, they are exposed to being unfaithful to "the son", just as they where unfaithful to The Father; for if indeed they were faithful, they would have seen in "the son", marks of The Father, not for he is "the son", but for they love The Father and all that is in Him.

If it is right by God, then it is perfect by me

Let you not try to be complex about simple things to only end being confused for nothing. The perfection of righteousness comes in that if it is right by God, then it is perfect by me.

If by admission of his own expression Paul failed to realize the righteousness that God promised as by His holy commands, that means Paul does not know true righteousness and he therefore can not teach about what he does not know.

The mysteries of divine truth can only be proved through experience. We should not mistaken righteousness for some religious fun-fare and when things sometimes don't go our way and we do not feel good, then God s promise of righteousness is empty.

Paul place righteousness as "perfection", he claims; which is pretty much a blatant lie, that righteousness is attained by putting faith in "Jesus" and he goes on to say that he, Paul did not hope to be perfect (righteousness) in this lifetime. This says those whose hopes are in Paul s theory they will have to die before they become righteous.

In fact trying to think deep on this "twist" is getting me very irritated...for this is straight out madness! I mean Job did not have to die before he was counted righteous, David, Zach, Elisabeth and all other saints whose accounts were not recorded the Bible, they did not have to die before the word of God speak of them as on His righteousness. But yet this world agree when Paul calls them to abandon God s holy means to true righteousness to follow his corrupt doctrine that promises righteousness by the graveside, this is so pathetic!

The gospel of personalities

The word of God speaks of the will of God and divine will is about no one but only God Himself- The Heavenly Father. So to narrow it down in to something else or someone, then it is no longer the gospel we are talking about.

For we here have pretenders who have created their own brands of "faiths" based on some particular biblical figures, or some of these neo- famous religious clowns who pretend to be some big time prophets. When the word says, I Am The Beginning and The End, what does that says? It simply means when it comes to divine will all works are His, and things remains exactly that way even if He where to put you on act. That says you can not lay a claim on what He accomplishes through you or take credit for thus. Yours is only for you to know your place and stand by its Truth- The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

There is no middle man when it comes to true faith, the moment you accept\ acknowledge the word of Truth as being God s will, the minute you begin to deal God, The Almighty Himself as The Beginning and The End.

It is by living in Truth to prove you have trusted in God

Let us look at the functional meaning in the word trust, and the broader implications of it being incorrectly applied.

Trust is your first resort which would also come as your final resolve; it is like putting your last breath on this End. Just as I have said that divine will does not work in half measures and there is no alternate when it comes to the ultimate.

For what we here have is pretenders who claim to believe in The Father, but they would just stand on the sight of The Holy One and say bona they trust on His "son" or some moron bishop who pretend to be a big time prophet. As God as The Heavenly Father is Himself The Almighty, isn't that enough for you to put your trust in Him? Why do you have to trust on His "son"? Or is it maybe fun? Or you think this is some kind of game?

Hope can only be found in trust, while trust is solely based on Truth, and the knowledge of God is our very own ultimate Truth. Our hope could only be in God if we have trusted in Him based on His Truth. What does that say, it means you can not trust in anything or anyone except God- The Heavenly Father, for Truth speaks only about Him- The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

As for me, what I know is The Ultimate Truth, and this Truth is my life, where I have trusted with all my heart, and have all my hopes forever rested, and that is my bloody faith!

You can't tell what is a "test" without knowing what is the Truth

You can't tell what is a test without knowing what is the Truth. Without knowing Truth, walking like a blind you are bound to fall in to "trap".

What is it that you have to say while for lack of Truth you obviously have no knowledge? For there can not be any understanding outside Truth, and without understanding you simply have no knowledge, meaning you know nothing! So, if you have no knowledge like that, that simply says you just can't talk\ write!

Let me give it to you straight, the issue of righteousness by the Truth based on God s holy commands is not a demographic, conditional or circumstantial issue to could be zoned in anyway. To simply put, you have no choice and even your preference just does not count. Meaning that you can not act as if it does not concern you or play it as if it was second to something. It is major, and goes far deep.

It is like you standing to say, yes I am right. On what grounds? This question justify your very own existence, why are you here walking the face of earth? When it comes to that, no man can say, I have a better something to think of, or, a useful errand to chase off. On Whose earth?

The Ultimate Truth is like a sharp axe that cuts through everything and leaves nothing standing, no one goes unscathed for that matter.

There is no alternate when it comes to the ultimate

There is no sharing when it comes to fatherhood, this principle applies even more stringent in matters of divinity as in relation to God as our Heavenly Father. The question as to whether we are sincere in our faith walks could only be established by our responses when the Truth in what we profess begin to unfold.

When the Truth says, The LORD is one, He alone is the only God. The reality would simply not accommodate any concept that speaks of more than one God. And by holding on to our faith we do not even entertain any "merit" in such despicable notions.

There is nothing subjective about Truth, it is only your defiance keeping you in the wildness. The LORD is one, He alone is the only God, there is nothing debatable about this Truth. So, this should be simple, if to you "the son" is "god", you therefore have to forget about The Father. As simple as that! You either have Him alone, or you just don't have Him at all. That is how holy He is, Him The LORD Almighty God.

An alternate way of "existence" outside life

Let us haul on to the fore this mad order you people call democracy. In democracy you fools go and appoint one of your mad fellows in to a position, and when that clown fails to do things as by you wayward wishes, you what? Oh, you simply "recall" that fool.

In business, in business when a company find that one of its products has some sort of defects, to save its image the company just recall the entire batch and destroy the whole rest. Now that your world has here gone mad and you all seem to be getting along quite well, it is the holiness of The Most High left hanging at stake.

Quite frankly you fools don't care about that; for it is your ancestors who spoke evil about Him, and your forefathers too have tried to wish Him away, and now you fools are doing the same by trying to create a godless world- a paradise of evil-madness. But here is the reality, that there is no way of doing away with God, for He is The Author of life. That means He owns this bloody life!

So all those who say it is impossible to live by God s Law, let them go and find an alternate way of "existence" outside life!

The dishonour directed at The LORD Almighty God, should come down to fall upon us those who profess His Name

If you walk in to your father s yard, and find him in tears for he has being treated as if he is less of a man, what do you do? Do you call your friends to organise your birthday party? Or lock yourself in your room to focus on that major account chasing for that big promotion? Or perhaps you go on to the calendar to look for a perfect opening to slot- in your grand wedding?

Of course you can do any of all that, only if to you he is not much of a father. But if indeed he is your main man, I tell you, you get in to the house, get a bloody exe come out and go all berserk! For him being disrespected, is more than major, is far worse than you being insulted straight to your face.

And that is what The Consciousness of True Righteousness tells, that the dishonour directed at The LORD Almighty God should come down to fall upon us those who profess His Name. And that should be a prove that indeed we are in Him. And in Him we will no way be disgraced.

Truth is more than all extremes

I Michael won't be told by a wicked man about terrorism, in the same way I won't be told by a terrorist about God. For Truth is more than all extremes and justice belongs to God.

If you are an extremist, let you know that your acts of terror has nothing to do with Truth, but just your sheer indulgence in madness; exactly as a mad cop who goes out killing for the justice of all, there is no justice for a wicked man. It is only by living in Truth that we come to claim His righteousness as our very own justice.

You can not believe in God and still buy in to some nonsense liberal notions talking about some justice for all. If you live by God's way, you would want all to do the same, not as by you, but as by Him. But if you choose to live by ways of your own choice, that of your prophets or politicians, how then do you go around chasing people to do things your way? Lets tell here, who is a terrorist now?

If you think you have a licence to kill let me here tell you this, The Ultimate Truth has more than all that. Whether you are a gun-yielding maniac with a badge or a bomb-carrying moron with his so called bible, you all need to know that it is God who hold the final end, for it is Him the only End upon which we all hold on to for our dear life.

Perhaps you murderers think this earth was created by your mothers, those wicked wrenches who tell each other that they hold the centre of the universe. And now they have all these furgets exactly where they want them, 'on bended knees'. They say it is "romantic", I say only to the devil's little girls!

There is no provision for "other husbands" in a marriage

Divine Will is solely about nothing but God's Divine Being- Holiness, and there in no place in that space for such a thing as "other gods". Here is where the Bible speaks "The LORD Himself shall be your Husbandman".

Even in the evil world, wicked men makes no provision for such a thing as "other husbands" in a marriage , but the foolishness of a lawless man would let him indulge in nonsense talks such as "all other gods" in relation to matters of God's Divine Being. This is for real, this world has gone way bloody mad!

You can not hide from God behind anybody's blood, even that of Jesus

Anyone who profess himself to be the child of God would know very well that he has nothing but only Truth as prove. This is where Jesus come to say, the Truth shall set you free. When he was tempted on the mountain with the devil's offer, he Jesus did not say, 'no, I am the son'. He simply trusted on the Truth by quoting on what was written.

Now, who do you think you are to could just bypass the test of true faith by riding on Jesus ' blood? For a child of God is a man of Truth, and a man of Truth is a righteous man. And this is how God in Ezekiel 18;9 describe what by Him is a righteous man, "he follows My decrees and faithfully keeps My laws. That is a righteous man, and he surely shall live".

Look here, a child of God is a man of Truth and a man of Truth is no fan of any man, his faithfulness hardly affords him any chance to could play fanatism of any sort.

When the Truth is not enough

When the Truth is not enough, only if to you the Truth is not enough, then the blood would do; when to you the Truth is not enough.

But there is no truth outside the knowledge of God, and those who fear Him would know Him, and those who know Him would want nothing more, for in Him they have found enough. As for those who do with the blood, these are the ones who say as the only God He is not enough, they want His "son" too, and on, and on. Exactly as a woman who said her husband is not enough, she wants the son too...

You have revealed your kind when you made your choice, and it is now that you come to meet your fate...

There are no spectators in the battle field

If you want to play for a winning team, that says you do not want to play at all. And if you do not want to play, you simply can't be in the field of play. But this is not a game, it is The Consciousness of True Righteousness and it has now become a bloody war; there are no spectators in the battle field.

If we commit to live by the Truth, we come to see that no one dies for anyone. But if you reject the Law to only live evil lives in the wickedness of our wayward choices, even if someone was to die that would be of no difference; for the very Law you reject marks your commitment to evil.

Make no mistake about that, there is nowhere in life where a good guy dies for the bad guys, that is madness; it is only the bad guys who kill a good guy to silence him, so that they can get away with murder.

If you do not live by the Truth, you simply fall by your very own tricks. ... let us get in to the courtroom and see what can we find. An caused man stand to plead, and these is what he has to say for himself, "I am not guilty, for I have washed myself with the blood of an innocent man".

Do you think the judge would agree to that and acquit this man? You must be bloody kidding! This is what the judge would do, he would convict this man, not for the crimes he is stand accused of, but for the murder he had just confessed. You can not point a finger while it is your hands covered with the blood. O tla jewa ke mahlale!

In the image of...

Let us here break this conundrum as by these words, "in the image of", so as to find the Truth of what in reality does that means.

If you were to stand and check yourself on the mirror and find that you do not see yourself, l tell you, you could fall and die, right on the very spot! And that is how we here come to understand how critical is the reality around these words –" in the image of" and the hold that they have on your whole life. Now the question is, as you stand to look yourself in the mirror of Truth, what do you see?

For it is our origin that carries our identity, upon which we find our morality, working on to which we head straight in to our destiny.

It was Adam and Eve God created, not you and the rest of your mad fellows

When we take God as the main course of our lives, there would be no excuse when it comes to His will.

Let me put this to you, it was not in God's will that you where brought here on earth, it only came out of your wicked mothers and those furgets you call fathers. For if it was in Him, you would have known Him, and in knowing Him no doubt you would fear Him. But you fools have no time for all that. Well, I have bad news for you, it was Adam and Eve God created, not you and the rest of your mad fellows.

So, our only claim to that lineage of being God created solely rest in us being of His likeness, righteousness. If it was by Him, you would have found it natural to live by His Law. But that you have resorted to the wayward ways of your posterities, that to you should stand as a reminder, that it is not by Him that you are here, thus does not belong, have no stake not even a say.

I have said it that the creation of man is solely meant to serve the course of Truth, and the making and working of divine will is also designed in a way that no man could be with an excuse to live anywhere except in Truth. That you can not say wena you want to exist here on earth, free from the "politics" of God, then become whose' politics? Because when you don't not live by the Truth, you become a problem to the whole course of life.

Outside our morality as by divinity, there is simply no humanity

Righteousness as being of God's likeness, this is the ultimate in defining who we are as men walking the face of earth. That outside our morality as by divinity there is simply no humanity. So before we get tangled in to long twisted talks about "its crimes", let us here first deal with the question as to who we are. For it is in that answer we come to find what we stand for, and that is pretty much who we are; being of God's likeness, that is exactly what makes us to be what we are, man.

So without adhering to the Truth that keep us in that divine frames of our human form, we then have nothing to say to each other. For it is only when a man begin to take his place as being of God's likeness, that a woman too come to fall in her place as being made out of a man; not to be "equals", but to be partners, in this God given life.

That while justice has no gender, the Truth is the Truth and remains to be, unchanged as the Truth. For when I see a God-fearing man, I just can't help but marvel at the thought that indeed there was no mistake in God creating a man. But when I see a foolish woman trying to act "the man" by wearing her pants, or some fancy furgets indulging in the madness of his lawless living, that too also come to be obvious, that it has nothing to do with God's works.

It is THE RIGHTS of a righteous man being violated when the Law of Truth is being infringed

There is no way the suffering of lawless men could precede above the righteousness of God, in the same way that the liberty of a righteous man should not be subjected to the dispositions of the wicked. That while you are busy killing and doing each other all sorts of despicable things, that should not be of any burden to a righteous man; for it is you fools who deliberately rejected the Law of The Most High outside which there is nothing but madness as a way of life.

And we now have the rebels against the will of divine order, who have went to create their own makeshift systems of governance, and would want to impose all these nonsense upon a righteous man. I mean how can I live by the liberating Law of The Almighty Himself and still be able to submit to the mad orders of the heathens?

So while you maniacs caring guns, running around, shooting and killing, can you stand before God and say wena you serve the "constitution"? or maybe you think like you cowards I too am a fool. By the way, who is your bloody constitution? As a matter of fact why can't you just come out and say it, that you do it for yourself – "for a living". For I Michael can put it on record that I serve God, and His Law is my very own prove!

That out of all that a wicked man has gained, his "silver coins" for having sold out, as a cherry on top he get to put his foot on the neck of a righteous man. For there is no way a man of Truth could be lead by wicked man or told by a bunch of mad-fools, that would be oppression on its worst horrible form.

That it is THE RIGHTS of a righteous man being violated when the Law of Truth is being rejected\ ignored. That is how the working of God's Law effectively outlaws everything outside God's Will.

You see, in games you can be a referee without having played the game, but when it comes to righteousness there is no bloody such. There is no way you can live a wicked life in the foolishness of your liberal free will and administer justice for the righteous.

Or perhaps you wicked pranks think you can contest the merit of God s Holy Law on the grounds that you have kids? Oh, really? Do you want us to talk about that?

If we can not enforce God s Law we then should not enforce any law at all.

The issue of truth is not a religious thing, it is a matter of life, far more than dying. Therefore righteousness is no bloody optional! That when it comes to obeying God s commands no man can act as if he has a bloody choice.

It is not that we are fools when we fear God. If I can't work on a Saturday it is not because I have made a choice, it is purely for I have no bloody choice, and when it comes to that there is no way I could explain myself or report to a wicked man why I can't do what God said it should not be done. For to me Saturday is strictly a nonworking day and there is nothing to debate in that respect, period! Don't even try to get slick with me for there is nothing "essential" about a life of a wicked man.

When people fear they don't consult or discuss, but simply jump in to action; and that is how it is with those who know The LORD, and we are not going to conduct as if we need anybody s "understanding" or some form of allowance from the mad world to give to God what to Him is due, for He too does not need our favour to demonstrate His holiness.

For you fools have being behaving as if God does not have a choice but to get along with whatever makes you "tick". Well, it is now that you come to see that it is you with wires crossed; and that is how your life outside His Law has being nothing but madness. But you fools have not realised that, for you are so determined to make something out of nothing even if it means turning in to maniacs. You say life is what you make out of it, I say life is about God, and you can make "one" only if you are a mad-man.

The thing is that the intricate working of evil as by the wayward ways of your lawless lives imperceptibly create watertight undercurrent that straight out refuse to acknowledge truth. In that space a righteous man would have no place to work, for there is no way I can make friends with those who refuse to acknowledge The LORD, and when it comes to such there is no way of pretending; as a matter of fact I should not even be speaking to those.

It is only God who knows who are His

When it comes to righteousness there is no working for nothing, you can only work for what you know. If you say you serve The LORD, the question is, do you really know Him? For if you don't, let me here put it to you, jy is bloody mal! For it is only by knowing God that you come to serve Him.

The holiness of God s Divine Being is so such that everything revolve around Him; that to be His child you have to serve Him. That you can not be His child by serving any of His servants\ child; there are no such "grandchildren" in the Kingdom of God s divine house. That when it comes down to it no man can stand and say, that fellow is the child of The Most High; for it is only God who knows who are His. But when we live by His way, we come to see in Truth, where we stand in Him.

The world's greatest pie of evil

When you hate evil, you hate it in all forms, size and all shapes. For when it comes to it, hypocrisy stand out as a cream of the top, more like the world greatest pie of evil where everyone get his fat cut. And to tell the Truth, is to take out of a mouth of a wicked man, his precious pierce of this mad delicacy, and that is going to cause a fight!

They say, 'we are the hypocrites and you can't do anything about that; because you refuse to be a hypocrite, you are a lunatic, so you are going to hear from us; our madness is justified by the society and the rest of the world'.

I say The LORD is one, He alone is the only God. And this is the very core of who I am, and it is on it that I stand to say, I won't be told by a bunch of mad fools, whether being the hypocrites or their lunatics.

'No, the world is not such bad, this madness is working for us, it is only this Michael who refuse to play along.' If you did not know, let me here fill you in. That The Consciousness of True Righteousness is not a talk, it is a war; the one I Michael going to fight, if need be, till this earth breaks! For my heart is saw and my eyes are filled with tears that refuse to fall, and this is the raging flames of The Consuming Fire!

It is in the glory of God we come to find the joy of life

The fulfillment of God's Sovereign Will is the only form of true worship, and that only comes to be, when His Law is being obeyed, and that is how He gets to be glorified, by being honoured with worship that suit His holiness.

But there are these cocky pranks who have being walking around puffed-up with the mad teachings acting as if they have something here to fight for, let alone live for. Well, the Truth is that you are not supposed to be here even for starters.

Perhaps your so called ancestors who taught you all these madness and your parents who continue to feed you with these falsehood could tell you how did you come by. That they were just fooling around and you just popped-up.

And now you have developed tough necks and we are going to be told by the lawless pranks. Your wicked mothers conceived you while playing all kinds of tricks even under the trees, and now you are going to pose around pretending to be some kind of "sacred oaks", with an evil nerve to challenge the wisdom of The Holy God?!

A fearful man is a faithful man

When the word of Truth says, the fear of God is the beginning of knowledge, a wicked man for wanting to seem "better", goes acrobatic in fancy talk teaching about being fearless. Isn't the gospel supposed to teach people about living with The Holy God? Isn't He enough fearsome for us to could revere Him? So, what is all these madness preaching about being fearless? For I tell you, to act or think as if God is not fearsome, is simply saying that He is not holy.

What we do in Truth, we do in fear and when we do in fear, that is where we do in all. And here is where we talk of wholehearted commitment, exactly what faithfulness is all about. So don't be fooled by those "hippies" talking things such as 'faith does not exist with fear'. That only applies in false faith. For I Michael can tell you this, a fearful man is a faithful man.

If a man feels better, that means he think he is better

If a man feels better, that means he think he is better. For a man of Truth lives by God's Law against which he hardly compares himself with even himself. His heart is all fixed in nothing but to the fulfilment of the Will of The Father, and when things goes wrong in that respect, he can't help but feeling bitter and beefing about everything.

The heart of the Law is Truth, while the object of Truth is righteousness, the essence of righteousness is holiness, and the substance of holiness is God by Him very own Divine Self!

Righteousness is the only mould we have upon which a man should model his life with, and Truth is the only means against which a man come to measure himself with. There is no biblical figure that could fit you there and absolutely no miracle to could clone you that- righteousness, being of God s likeness

If a man could only fear God

If a man could only fear God, then there is nothing else to could be asked out of that man. For then it only God who does all through that man.

But if a man has no fear of God, let him not fool you with his false humility or bribe you with his fake smile, for his heart bellies nothing but evil at core.

These mad fools think they can just ignore God's Law and live in evil of lawlessness and cover that ka go ipopona (by being smug\arrogant). Right on the sight of The Most High, wena o tla ipopona?

Evil is the strength of a wicked man, lawlessness to him is freedom, in foolishness that is how he demonstrate his liberty. And that is exactly how these people are, decorated in madness. How could people be so proud and puffed up in such gross foolishness? La no ipopona, ka gare ga bophokophoko bo bo kaa?!

There is no going an extra mile when it comes to divine works

There is nothing about God s works which is for your self indulgence, everything is meant for purpose. Now, you take a good look at most or some of your religious practices and paraphernalia, see how does they fit in to divine purpose as by God s will based on His holy commands. If they don't, why then do you do them?

Can you put some pierces of steal and dedicate them to God? How then do you put God s Name on your car plates? Is your car...? Or your just nuts and having a great fun out of it?

For if a man is sincere in his faith he would know that by being dedicated in Truth, is being dedicated in all, and there simply no place in that man s life for any of all those foolish odds, or all extraneous nonsense that pretenders do when they want to indulge themselves and impress the rest of the mad world.

Divine will is about God, and when it comes to His works there is no "going an extra mile", for you would then be acting 'bigger than the game'.

A man of Truth never get carried away and always know where to draw the line

There are some words and ways of speaking that could be fitting in terms of our human interrelations, but the same can not be applicable\appropriate when it comes to our relationship with God. A man of Truth never get carried away and always know where to draw the line. For instance, God is The Heavenly Father; but that does not mean He is your "dad" you moron!

To add on it, let me say this, that there are some things that God could say about us, but we can not say the same about ourselves; the reason being that He is God and you are not!

An example is where God say Job as His "friend", my take is that Job would not have said the same about God. For a man of Truth is content in being a child of God and would not fancy anything more. And that is what The Consciousness of True Righteousness is all about, you knowing your place and sticking by its Truth – The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

It is God who testifies for Himself about Himself and there is no way you can better that

God does not need your approval, and surely does not need anybody's appraisal or "recommendations". It is you who needs all from Him. So don't act as if you are a "good Samaritan" out to give a better testimony than the true one He gives by Himself about Himself. You know nothing about Holiness, so righteousness is all you have as your only hold, so that He can through you give His very own testimony about His holiness.

You are not going to ignore His will by rejecting His Law and thinking you can do something better by your fancy tunes singing mad-talk of your false faith taught by those who speak His holy Law as a "curse". For it is God who testify for Himself about Himself and there is no way you can better that.

When You Think What You Know Is More, Then You Have No Knowledge At All

After having written more than 120 000 words in The Ultimate Truth, and putting together more than 70 plugs on autonomy.com, it was only few days ago that I opened the Bible so as to take my "daily bread", of course The Ten Commandments; and for the first time in all years of reading the Bible I saw something strange, like I have never seen it before, that my writing of the Name "LORD" was not precisely as it is accordingly written in the Bible . That while I was only using the capital letter "L" to begin, in actual truth this Name is written with capital letters from end to end-"LORD". That was quiet a shocking revelation to me. You should have seen me putting away the Bible and bending my head without even going in to further reading...

That at times you might be looking but not quiet seeing; and sometimes you could be listening but just not hearing. Just as He says "I AM The Beginning and The End" that means you cannot bet/ boast on anything else except Truth. You cannot even allow yourself to be played by thoughts such as 'I have being doing this for years'. For when it comes down to it, He will prove to you that your many years has being spent on nothing but foolishness. Hence I here say, when you think what you know is more, then you have no knowledge at all.

It is God who know all and only Him you must know

It is God who knows all and only Him you must know, and that is all you need to know. It is not about what you know, is about doing what God wants, for it is Him who know all. But if you do what you want, you can not come to say, I did not know, for that would not hold.

We obey for we fear, if you say you do not know, that means you do not fear. "Forgive them for they do not know". I tell you, there is no bloody such! If you do not fear God that means you do not care about the consequences. And if you do not care about the consequences, then there simply is no place for you in life.

We can't be true to ourselves until we are true to God

People always boast about being true to yourself. In actual fact a whole lot of those who brag about this don't quite understand what in truth does the phrase means. That trying to find the actual substance of ones true character might take more than you would be willing to give, and given an opportunity to know the true meaning of this phrase, most would quickly rescind from all claims and choice of true self to be resigned in to being whoever they come out to be by each moment as they go along.

Being true to yourself goes way deeper than you think and might even demand you giving your all, including the very thought itself. Man is made in the image of God, so being true would begin from the point of man brought to his original form of being of God s likeness. To be true to yourself you first have to be true to God. Without being true to God one might just boast about being true but all our bragging would be of substance. But wicked men do even much better when they lie to themselves, for their hearts are bred on evil.

The root of our true identity is berried in our origin as being of God s image. And the only thing more substantive about God s Invincible Majestic Being is His Law, of which The Ten Commandments comes out as the heart of it all.

We can't be true to ourselves until we are true to God, and while we still cherish all these written lies taught by our religious establishments, apposed to the very Truth of God s divine will, we then are not anywhere close to understanding what does being true really means.

Being true might be brandished as a fancy phrase of your hip & happening culture of the modern society. But that only demonstrate the extend to which modern world has slipped in to the deep sleep of stupor, and somehow taking pride in such hapless state of existing in abject ignorance. And this is the prime example of taking commitments on the basis of peripheral matters without making sufficient effort in finding an in depth understanding as to the content of what we commit ourselves to, and at what cost does all that comes about. The same with those who claim to be having true faith, without establishing the truthfulness of its righteousness.

The Law does not only protect, it too also promote

When it comes to the Law of Truth, God Himself is the defining Figure. That is how we speak righteousness as godliness, being of God's likeness – as in the image of God. For the Law does not only protect, it too also promote; our identify, who we are as the people.

Let us here get this straight, that righteousness and wickedness are like water and oil, they just don't mix at all. So if you take certain aspects of God's Law, add to them some of your fancy liberal notions to create your makeshift system of governance, those sophisticated "additions" becomes the defining features of your so called constitution, pretty much saying these is what we are about.

For example, if you say it is right for a man to sleep\ marry another man, that act on its own create an environment that encourage its use\ more like promote that "practice". Meaning that a mad man as by this act has the "right" to could just walk to another man and say 'I want to have you'. In that gross madness a wicked man is not only protected by your so called constitution, but his madness is also hailed with a bloody 21 gun salute. For you mad democracy says it is his freedom.

But here comes a problem, that if a mad-man as like that walks towards a man of Truth like I am and whisper some of those mad-crap like that, then there would be no fitting way to could respond to that except to kill that mad-hog with my very own bare hands. For by saying all such nonsense to me, he would have violated me in the worst horrible form I can not even begin to explain.

That to legislate evil so as to protect a wicked man would not only promote madness, but would also punish and oppress a righteous man by subjecting him to the madness of a wicked man. But in this world, living in Truth is going against the tide; it is said a righteous man should suffer in silence or submit to the order as by this mad world, as those at the helm are just "furggies" in their own right, for a man who worship or pray to "man god" or any form of false "gods" is no way different to the one who sleep\marry another man. They both are filthy furgets; they need each other to could exist, for they both can not prevail at the sight of Truth, and that is how evil feeds on each other.

That the hypocrisy of the religious pretenders serves only to justify boiswarahlephi (looseness ) of unbelievers. For he the unbeliever, when he sees the hypocrites, says to himself, why even bother to believe. And the hypocrite when he sees the wickedness of the unbeliever he feels justified on his false faith and become even more determined to hold in to his false "gods".

No way would I Michael be blackmailed in to silence in fear of being labelled with some extreme terms. I have said it that Truth is life without which even blood is for nothing. For his lack of Truth, a wicked man has no value for life at all, in his twisted heart he thinks those who value life have no choice but to embrace his evilness, in fear of his life. Well, the reality is that if you do not live by the Truth you have no right to life at all; so no one should fear on your behalf.

So, you can frame your "tolerance" and hang them on your fancy walls, as for I Michael will keep on talking The Ultimate Truth, for the time is now and there is no bloody going back!

The dark hole of liberal barbarism

Fashion and innovation have both transcended, breaking down the barriers that governs your "morality"; what seem, what looks, what appears and what is not, has all become the same. And now your morality has plunged on to the bottom deep, the dark hole of liberal barbarism, leaving your humanity in tartars, and the world is now chaotic madness.

Your beauty have deceived you, you thought Truth does not count thus relied on your looks, and you now have become a thoughtless wrench, played in the evil game for a wicked man's gain.

That at some place a man has to close his eyes just to pass around, for those who walk around are so feed up with themselves, dressed up in nothing they now wants everyone to have a little dose of what drives them wild, the madness of evil precipitated by the foolishness of lawlessness.

To speak about these things is to risk being called a scumbag of the earth. They say, it is a free world. I say julle is bloody mal!

Morality is no personality

Morality is no personality, but our collective identity as the people, and that is not made by us, through us or for us; but it is solely derived from God as our Creator. That it is in our origin we come to find our morality, within which lies our identity. So there is no identity outside morality.

The question of morality has no boundaries, you can not say because I am not in the receiving end therefore I am excused from any fallout. When the word say, The LORD is one, He alone is the only God. It means it is only God on the other end. So while we are still stuck in this mad world as evil as it is, we absolutely have nothing to be proud of, to boast about or even justify our existence on this God's very own created earth. When things are so ugly that condoms could soon be distributed in prison, you tell, whose justice is being served in all such gross madness? It is not about one man being found bad while others deserving any less; it is about the whole world having abandoned the wisdom of everlasting ages.

Justice is a very fragile pierce, if we desire to have one we most definitely tightens all screws, and that can only be by living in Truth. You can not live your life in the looseness of your liberal free will, but jump off like you have being wronged when things begin to fall, pretending as if you always wanted things to be right. To make thing right is to do them right and that can only be by living in Truth, not sometimes or most times, but all times.

If a man legislate prostitution, let him be the first to put his wife on the street and raise his daughters to follow suit, after all it is a "business", isn't it?

Perhaps with all development around the world you fools feel you have done enough to could step up and take charge, so God should stand on the side; is that what all your "civilisation" has being about? That you do not want to live by the Law of Truth, you want the "law of more", after all it is you in the majority, so you should run things around here. You throw all sorts of incentives making all kinds of innovation, for you are so determined to make these madness work, so as to put out of use the wisdom of God.

It is a very small world

Let me tell you the earth is very huge, but when it comes to evil things turns different; it is a very, very small world. We can not coexist, and we simply can not get along, both the righteous and the wicked.

Evil is the worst form of filth you could ever image; it is not only filthy, but to a human soul, it is more toxic than lethal poison. If someone throws you down the toilet pit, would you tolerate? For l tell you, for a man of Truth to live among the wicked men is more like being down the slim pit. And that, I Michael can not bloody tolerate!

A wicked man does not have to do anything seen to be bad, his very existence on its own is evil at work. Whatever he does, one way or the other is the opposite of what life is meant to serve. Instead his existence only serve to dishonour God, and that is what lawless men all along have being doing, trying to create a paradise of madness where all wicked men would live free from God, indulging in the pleasures of evil, for they say His Law is "oppressive" slave ship.

When intents are brought on to the light of Truth

Just as what seems a revolutionary move could turn out in to being an act of treason, and the very same act thought to be treason could also come to be found a revolutionary move; let your fashion statement not turn out in to being nothing but an insult in faith profession when intents are brought on to the light of Truth.

For making a statement is like taking a stand, so whatever you say or do simply tells as to where you stand thus who you are. That while you might be brimming and glowing in all nonsense liberal notions that this world feeds you as being you at your best, be careful not to wake and find yourself being nothing but just a pathetic pierce in the foolish play of an evil man s games.

'I can be whatever I want', nonsense! A man of Truth can only be what God wants, and that to him is enough, he would want nothing more. 'What is wrong with that'? 'No, that is not right'. Listen, if you don't know the Truth, you can't tell as to what is wrong and you don't even hike in to talks about what is right. Yours is only for you to listen!

Let me here put this to you, a woman is the one who wear dress\skits, otherwise, that is something else, more like the devil's trap. You stay from such or you would be caught in a snare. For I tell you, when I see a woman wearing pants, I myself feel an insult thrown at my face.

The world has gone mad and its people don't seem to mind

Only in the evil world such as this, is madness so richly rewarded. Have you heard about something called the "gospel comedy award"? What is that? Here a mad man stand to be honoured. For what? Of course for his madness, and the crowd acknowledge in applause that, yes, he is the best among us. Can you believe that?

I tell you this world has gone mad and its people seems to be having a great fun out of all these nonsense. The only ones who seem to be making the difference are the hypocrites and the lunatics. What difference could that be whereas in content of character they are of the same substance as their wicked counterparts, they are both... What is the word? "Liberals", no the word is lawless-men. More like a corrupt cop and a dirty criminal, the difference being that one is hiding behind the uniform, in the same way that the hypocrites and their lunatics are hiding behind false religion.

I tell your this whole "not under the Law" garbage expedition has turned out in to being more like, going out of your mind.

If it is right, God Himself will make it work

Prayer is strictly a faith affair, not some therapeutic session in gymnastics of some weird spiritual form. But a sacred communion pleading in professions of our faith commitments. That is how in a nutshell I could speak of prayer.

When a husband and a wife discuss their marriage they don't call the children. So just as your faith is with God- The Father, it follow suit that your prayers too should be directed only to Him, not any of His servant\son. Just as the word say, The LORD Himself shall be your Husbandman.

So it is not about what works, it is about what is right. For if it right, God Himself will make it work.

Before we pray, let us first understand the words we are about to profess

Before we pray, let us first understand the words we are about to profess. And when we indeed do understand, we then begin to live as in accordance to the Truth in professions of our players' wishes, for that is God's will and we know it!

"Let your will be done on earth". What does that say? It simply means, I shall not have a wish that goes against Your will, or, I shall not want outside Your Truth.

But it is only by having God s Law in our hearts that His will becomes our only wish, just as His wish is for us to have in our hearts, His holy commands, so that we are not condemned when we pray. For some wishes get to be quite telling as to who you are, thus does not belong. So, to want outside, is by being out there where you belong, with those who do as they please, for that is your wish!

To who don't care, let us get in to this mind

Telling the Truth to a wicked man would be like taking a sweet out of a child s mouth. But this is meant to be, for some sweet come to choke.

A man s mind is the Truth he hold on to his heart, if you have the Truth, yes you have the mind; all belong to God and to Him they all matter. If you know this, you would care, a bloody lot! And when you begin to care based on His Truth, that is when He reveals Himself to you because of His Truth you care about.

The question is, does your mind which what you hold at heart resembles the righteous nature of God s Divine Being? If you can answer yes to that, then let your claims be proved correct. For it is only here where you can stand to say, yes, The LORD is my Father!

A man s heart is his very own true face

In the wicked world a smile can get to you very far, but in Consciousness of True Righteousness, a man s heart is his very own true face. A man does not wear a makeup, that means you can not gloss your heart by wearing a fake smile and still think yourself to be a man.

It is only by knowing the Truth that one comes to be the man, without which you are just not a man at all. And when you are not that man, even your name is like a flesh of pig, that which is not worth being on the lips of a righteous man.

Truth is the only content to a man character like what you get in a box when you buy a product, without which you are just taking home a worthless empty box!

I have said it before that there is no Truth anywhere outside the knowledge of God, just as there is no book on the face of the entire planet earth greater than The Ultimate Truth. The Bible is the collection of books while The Ultimate Truth is the culmination of that collection.

Now this is what I Michael want, that The Ultimate Truth comes to be the most dominant subject on the whole world more than any topic that has ever captivated the rest of the world. I want the eyes of the world to be fully and wholly concentrated on this work like it is last thing on the face of earth. I want to wake up and find the world in silence, for it is here where the Truth come to be set for all to see, that The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

If you really care about your kids, you most definitely do what is right by God

If you really care about your kids you would most definitely do what it is right by God. For what is right by Him would not only come to be right by you, but would also fall down to being right your kids, and their kids, on and on and on... here it is where my Bible says "I will punish the children for the sins of their fathers".

For a wicked man pretends to love his kids while all he care about is keeping an environment conducive for him to indulge in the pleasures of evil living; as to what could come to fall upon his kids, they just have to see for themselves while himself hiding deep down on his grave. 'I have to work on Saturday for my evil boss would fire me if I don't, and I have kids, I have to feed them, I can't afford to loose my job'.

The main concern is, would you rather have your kids face the wrath of The Consuming Fire than you having to stand up your evil boss? only the answer to this question would prove that you indeed care. For I Michael can certainly tell you that if a man can do one right thing for God, then there is no limit as to what he could do for His Divine Course.

A man of Truth belong to God not to a church. If a church tell you to do what goes against God s Will, you do it for you belong to your church, not to God. But a man of Truth can only do what God wants, he does not care about what the church says, its society or the rest of the world, for he belong to God, and that is how he is the man of Truth.

A God-Fearing Man Would Raise God-Fearing Kids

A God-fearing man would raise God-fearing kids, and a God-fearing child would not "back-chat" at his father, not for he fear he could be stoned, but for his reverent fear would simply not allow him to commit such an evil.

But you hypocrites deny The LORD by rejecting His Law, what then does the rebellion of your kids have to do with any testament? I mean these kids would just be doing what they see in you(fathers) as you do in respect of your relation with God as The Heavenly Father. So before you would get slick in to talks about your rebellious kids, it should be you first to be stoned for your rebellion against The Heavenly Father.

For if a man is sincere in his quest to work the Will of Divine Course, he does not ask like a window-shopper; he simply jumps in like a son running back home to The Father. But here the attitude is like, 'we are not comfortable with that "pierce", God should come to negotiate our terms', le a gafa!

The world has taught you so much lies that life is about you, and now the sound of Truth pose a threat to your entire world; in defence you run on to everything trying to cling un to anyone, so as not to be alone in your rebellion. "half the men of this world"..."society agrees" , your society says a man, a man of trousers by the way can go to bed with another man of trousers... such a disgusting abhorrent evil filth! Could this be the kind of a "society" a real man would want to listen to? When you are told the Truth you filthy rags get cocky, acting as if you hold a "higher morality" greater than the Righteousness that uphold Divine Integrity (Holiness).

For your lack of Truth you now can't stand for anything right but only can hide behind the crowd, for you fear the retribution of mob mentality. A man of Truth would not be intrigued by a mad mob.

Something you never get them otherwise without you going out of your mind, I say. A human soul is solely made to serve Divine Will, and Divine Will does not begin where your conscience starts itching. Divine Will is about God and it is only when you begin to make life to be about Him that you never get anything wrong; for that is when He begins to work through you according to His Righteousness; exactly as He says "I AM The Beginning and The End".

A Marriage Of A Wicked Man Is No Marriage At All

Your position in faith matters determines your overall stand in life as a whole. If you disregard your father, run to only marry an adulteress, you simply should not expect your father s blessings. When you live for your false "gods"(s) your whole life including your very marriage is for nothing but an evil course.

In wickedness you conceive, to only raise your kids in lawlessness, in hope that they mature to be better versions of yourselves- meaning more evil! For there is nothing to could ever be right out of all works of a wicked man; as your very own believe establish your purpose which defines your character to ultimately determine your destiny. And that is how I Michael here say, without Truth all is nothing and they all turn out worthless.

Evil has no better end to it

Evil has no better end to it, whichever way you look at it is all the same, boitshwara- hlephi\ furgetism. A real man would not accept to share his wife with another man, in the same way that he would not subject himself to be "in sharing" with another man s wife.

That a man is a man by Truth, and it is on it that he come to lay the terms, but only to his wife. So if you go on to sleeping with another man s wife, it is her who now lays the terms for you. And that makes her to be more like "the man", with you reduced to being a little "furgie" hidden under the armpit of a filthy whore.

That she said yes to you while having said I do to another, says she is whore, and that she is a whore means she is filthy. But Lena le bo tshila ga di bolaye, enontshiste kolobe. But now bokolobe ba Lena bo fihlile mafelelong, ( your kind is of those who say, dirt does not kill, it has fattened the pig, but now your "pig-ness" has come to an end).

You have being fooled in to thinking yourself a "player", it is now you get to learn the game, that you have being played even a bigger fool!

Intelligent arguments

Lawlessness is not a choice of consciousness, but just some powerful delusions that reign upon a man s mind when his heart is not set right by being fixed on Truth. As for intelligence, only lead you away from the Truth, on to the dark up-market of world thoughts, where you sell yourself to the highest bidder, who then put you up for his twisted course, you getting wicked in the cause.

Arrogance and ignorance, these two are like a sword and a shield in the hands of a lawless man. There is only one thing that arrogance can accomplish, that is destroy a man s very own heart, having him to live at ease, a life without a soul. As for ignorance only steals a man s mind, leaving him to trust on darkness, for no one can see, that he is mindless.

But with the Truth comes light. So, no man should pretend, for The Ultimate Truth is here thus no place to could hide. For the arrogance of a wicked man could get him to think that he can just ignore The Ultimate Truth and get away with it, by running to hide among the dead, on his grave. That is how wicked these people have become, so twisted that they are even proud of being fake-hearts.

The Ultimate Truth is not here to open a conversation, but to put an end to all, so that all come to The End. These are no arguments, and intelligence just does not work, but only The Consciousness of True Righteousness – the fear of God.

The Holiness of God s Name

"My Name is to be feared among all nations" Malachi 1;14...seating on the street corner of a small town, like I am dreaming, I notice a mini-van written El-SADDAI with big lattes on its body-side, to my awaking I remember seeing these words somewhere in the Bible, and to my realization it was in reference to God. So I went to confirm and yes I find it correct, that El-SADDAI means God Almighty. And now see a wicked man, a wicked man here has named his mortuary (funeral parlour) EL- SADDAI

...in all these gross nonsense we are expected not to speak so as to keep the "peace". How can you speak of peace while heaven is all in grieve and its angels are groaning in deep anguish? I guess this is what they say,'di bona!' ( who cares!)

Without God s Truth all is nothing and they always turn out worthless

If a man can not kill for God, let him not deceive you with the delusions that sets him up to kill for a prophet. If a man can not stand for the Truth, let him not lie to himself of being of some worth in whatever foolish cause he may vow to fight\ die for. For without Truth all is nothing and they all turn out worthless

There is one thing in life which is worth fighting for, and that is the very same only thing which is worth living for-Truth! That some things are not worth fighting for, and if you don't let go, you are bound to get lost.

From the dreams that took you from childhood to your youth stage, the ideals that carried you there up to you adulthood, and the very believes that gets you thinking you can now face the grave, without Truth all in all has being nothing but evil-madness.

No one can bring God in to questioning

When a man of Truth by the Spirit of Truth speak in the Course of Truth; then it is no longer the man who speak but God through that man. Meaning that even if that man was to be questioned by those around about the words he utters, he, the man would not respond to what is being asked, but continue to speak as being spoken through by the Spirit of Truth – for no one can bring God in go questioning. So to try and understand the words of Truth in relation to the raised question is to miss the plot as by the Will of Truth.

Most people s misunderstanding of scriptures, eg Jesus teachings, is that their interpretations is focused on the questions raised, or the religious context of the time. The thing is that when it comes to understanding the words of Truth, God s divine will is the only catalyst, in that all meanings have to be confined to- The Will of The Father.

For I tell you, that some statements out of Jesus s teachings are straight out awkward, in that you can not just blindly buy in to them without compromising yourself at the space of God s works. And if we understand what life is meant to serve as purposed by The Creator, we then should understand that we can not abandon the will of Truth as enacted by God s holy commands in pursuit of some random act out of a loose statement.

Let me make this very clear, it is not in my scope to make you understand the teachings of Jesus or of any of all those who served God, the focus of this work is the knowledge of God- The Father. For it is only in the light of Truth that we come to have understanding to all of God s works as by His divine Will.

The Truth shall set you free

Jesus, the very man who bled and died on the cross had this to say, "the Truth shall set you free". He does not say the blood, or the cross. But the Truth, the Truth shall set you free. But a wicked man for wanting nothing to do with Truth, just goes in to some fancy ferry, talking 'the blood this', 'the cross this'.

He, the same Jesus went on to say, if you want to enter life, obey the commandments. Mathew 19; 17. But we now here have a booming religion teaching the world that the Holy Law of The Almighty God is "oppressive slave ship", and they want to claim Jesus as an excuse to thus rebellious stand. What kind of nonsense is that?

If you where ever sincere in your faith walks

If you where ever sincere in your faith walks, God would not only have showed you the way, but by Himself would have walked you all the way. But that you are now where you are, simply proves that you never had it in your heart to be in Him by living in Truth.

I am pretty much sure that you have heard about Revelations, well, now is the time that you get your revelation. Your faith profession in blood sacrifices is more like a red tag hanging on your neck, seating on your chest announcing your kind\ judgement. Now let your bible tell you what is your kind; to do that we open Revelation 16;6 "they have killed Your saints and prophets, and now you have given them blood to drink as they deserve".

To further go in to it, here is what Jesus had to say about that, "you are the children of the devil the father of all who lie, "he" was a murderer from the beginning \ you imitate your real father the devil, the father of all who lie, he was a murder from the beginning, "he" always hated Truth for there was no Truth in "him" John 8;4\You belong to your father the devil, and you now want to carry your father s desire, he was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to Truth"

Your Mad World Is Now Seating On my God s Earth!

Some of you seem to agree that this world has gone mad, but for some very bizarre reasons you find it "rational" to could use concessions (society agrees) coming out of the very society of the same mad world to justifying your position in standing against the Truth. I guess this is very "rational"! Of course it is, only to those who are "minded with morality of the mad society".

You pretenders act as if you were the "smart" ones, treating The Ultimate Truth as if it was a topic for the drunkards. It is so sad to see from your words that you are no different from the rest. If someone was to put a foot and stand on your toe, I guess you guys would tolerate. But now your mad world is seating on God s earth, and it is my Heavenly Father we are here talking about, and that is how this is a bloody big problem to me. Being a sincere man as I am, I cannot pretend against any of these.

To a man of Truth "pride" is nothing, all he is about is nothing but Righteousness, and to me, that is my very own bloody heritage! I have no time to be "nice" and make no friends with the fake-hearts, so I am going to speak the Truth exactly as it is meant to be said, in True Righteousness, and no man get to have a say in these matters and even your "world" has no bloody choice outside this course!

The existence of man is solely meant to serve The Course of True Will, but when you fools reject the Truth and rebel against Divine Will... I mean, if a company hires someone to do its work but that person comes in to do his "own business", the company has no choice but to fire that fool. For I work for this God, His Will is my whole life; so, as a true servant of The LORD, I Michael now ask you wicked pranks and the rest of your mad world, what are you here doing on my Father's earth?

God's way is the only way

God's way is the only way and there are no shot-cuts nor even sidewalks. So, to walk anywhere except God's way, is to go against God's Will.

But wicked men have since went to create in their little communities, some "zonke-bonke" societies upon which anyone who does not do things their way would be ostracised. For lack of Truth now a man of "religion" has since succumbed to the forces of these mad societies.

I myself can not understand anyone who does not listen to God, so why even bother to listen such? There is one language spoken in the land of righteousness, Truth! If you do not speak Truth, I will not understand you even in simple English.

The Highway of holiness

The highway of holiness is an extremely sacred path for a course of life, walking on it you can't be sure about anything except Truth, just as living in truth you can't trust anyone but only God.

That the closer you get to God the more distant you become to all. For I myself have walked this path and I know there is nothing to it except fire. You can only walk alone, because you never know what men do behind the walls in the comfort of being unseen. That when it comes down to it, you do not want to be found talking God with those who eat pig-flesh in the toilet.

You can not afford to be in alliance with anyone for even those who were close to you could sell you while themselves thinking trying to save you. You can not be nice for that could get you killed. You have seen Truth thus can not afford to play dead. That fighting evil is like fighting the dragon with seven heads, there is no "head", no tail.

The son of Righteousness

I thought I was a black man, that was pathetic; I then became an "African", I was even a bigger fool. For it is the Truth of my heart that says it all, the ultimate in defining who I am. And I now know for sure, that I am the son of righteousness from the Kingdom of Light. I am no black man not even your African, I am Michael The Ultimate Truth, I owe my entire being to The Ultimate Truth.

Here is what I have, standing as a monument of my heart, The LORD is one, He alone is the only God. I speak this as my breath, my very own heartbeat; I say this is my soul, the song I sing myself to sleep, and the very same I wake to sing for all day, for this is what I have, as an answer to all - The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

I have a testimony which is greater than all tales that earth has ever told, far greater than all stories men has ever witnessed; the truth I speak are my very own beats, I do not need a new tune, I sing the very same old song, and this is my story: The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

I am almost forty, but when I look at The Ultimate Truth it feels as if I have lived for over four hundred years. Sometimes I seat by myself, looking at this work then I ask to myself, where do I get all these? But then the light of truth in my heart reaches the far deep of my mind, then I breathe the sigh of relief, as it all becomes clear, that indeed these are nothing but God's very own handiworks. And again I say it to myself, The LORD is one, He alone is the only God.

The Accomplishment Of Divine Purpose Does Not Bring It In To Completion, But Rather Puts All Things In Perfection

The accomplishment of divine purpose does not bring it in to completion, but rather puts all things in perfection. Divine Will as it stands in God s Divine Being simply means, the Law is life for as long as man continue to exist.

If we fear, we simply obey, but to reason is to say that you know better... than God Himself. If you are truly willing to listen to God, you simply do what God wants despite who speak the words, but to do otherwise, only demonstrate your determination not to listen despite all. For I tell you, the one who reject the words of God s Will is no way different to a mad-pig that say 'God does not exist'.

A good child would not be brought in to evil talks that is meant to dishonour his Heavenly Father

They say we should debate, for they do not believe, that The HE exist. I mean what does a God-fearing man like me know about debates? For I tell you some questions are no concerns at all, but just insults. So to respond to them is to submit yourself to the space of you being derogated, more like saying, I deserve, to be this insulted.

I mean if your child one day wakes to say, how could you be sure that you have feathered me? What could you possibly say to that?

For I tell you, a real man would not be taken in to paternity contest by the child he took care of since the days in diapers, in the same way that a good child would not be brought in to evil talks that is meant to dishonour his Heavenly Father.

Truth is no good for business

One big problem with this world is the mistaken believe that it is incumbent upon a righteous man to make the wicked obey God. Like we are supposed to go out "plead" with the wicked world that, 'obey God', 'abide by His Truth', 'live by His will.

That is what happens in the wicked world, where the politics is ran by the corrupt, and the economy is owned by the fools, it is said to tell the Truth, a righteous man has to satisfy the wayward requirements of a wicked man. Whereas him the wicked, when he sees Truth he dares not to raise his hand, for he fears his business will go under.

How do you market Truth? especially when we talk of God s Truth? God does not ask, He commands, so to serve Him in Truth one can not go about it like a beggar.

'No man, you can't say that man. You are antagonising our cash cows'. For this is what I hear them say, Truth is no good for business.

The prohibited fruit

In the house of evil, truth is the prohibited fruit; those who serve the devil wants nothing to do with Truth.

Let me tell you, there is nothing free about life, Truth is always the only price- your rights to be here on this earth.

"Our ancestors ", "our lands", "our forefathers", what?! Julle is bloody mal! This is God's very own earth! Is not the lands of your so called ancestors or their forefathers. Perhaps you fools should go to the graves and dig out the bones of your forefathers and their ancestors who taught you all these mad talk, and be on your way to hell, were you all belong!

Evil greater than all crime

Not on this earth, perhaps in hell; yes perhaps in hell would everyone get to mind "his own business"; but most certainly not on this very earth.

This earth in all belong to The LORD Almighty God, and when it comes to Him, His business is the only business ; righteousness is what He is all about, so don't come up with stories I have no time for ferries.

If there is one thing that a man has to know in this world that is God and if there is something that a man has to do in this life that is to fear Him. I Michael do not want to hear about some crime-free zones, what I want is a God-fearing world, and this is what I am guaranteed to get!

That a wicked man does not need to commit any of your so called crimes, go se tshabe Modimo gwa gage on its own is evil greater than all crimes.

The gospel of efficacies ( needs and wants)

Obviously raised in mad – talk, lased up with the sweet talk that "God is with us". Oh, really? I mean we all know what happens when there is the father at home; things get down to the straight and narrow; but where there is a father but children walks around the house half naked, dancing the "kwasa" jive to the "stipa" mad -tunes at full blast, then we know khuthi lokho yena is not the real father.

So the question is, when you say "God is with us", do you live the life that proves you indeed mean the words you speak?

Because what you might not be aware of is that the Law also works as our spiritual clothes within which we come dressed in fitting manner that suit the holiness of The Almighty God. Meaning that, all your explosive calabashes in heated services of your lawless religions, on the sight of heaven are seen as you doing the "kwasa" dance to your "stipa" mad tunes in complete nakedness.

But when you tell these people, they just don't want to hear any of that. Because nudity is the nature of a wicked men. The wicked where they are naked, that is when they are at their very best.

The Gospel of Truth is no bloody "self-help", it is the Gospel of life, not fun! But true righteousness. So while you fools continue to feed and teach all these false religions customised around the dispositions of the wicked, you are best to step aside before I chop you down in to pierces with The Ultimate Truth!

Religion Has Turned Useless In Matters Of Righteousness

The world has gone all wicked, evil has become a way of life, false religion is now a big business, unbelievers parades around their godless life in great pride as if it was glamour to be envied, for those who claim to believe are nothing but pathetic hypocrites, just a bunch of mad fools. The wickedness of this world has gone way too bloody much...

The world is crying out for heroes, when human story rise man to the peak of personal glory, truth tend to be seen as a spoil; for truth knows no human hero. When dealing with God s truth, human profile is of no credence; Divinity is for God alone and man don't like it that way!

The end of time

The time has now arrived, for it has here become very clear; that a wicked man can not exist along with the righteous man; for in the foolishness of his corrupt heart, he the wicked would tell himself that his life is his business, while the Truth being that everything is God's business; being a man of Truth, he the righteous can not pretend against any of this; so, the continued existence of a wicked man is to subject the righteous man in to perpetual terror of his soul being daily tortured being exposed to the evilness of a wicked man taking care of his "business".

The time for change is no more

I Michael have seen the arrogance of an ignorant fool, the tough necks of these mad-pigs, and it has now become very clear, that the time for change is no more. It can not wait for a further five years while godless men would be indulging in their foolish debates. God is to be feared not debated.

So, let me say this right here and right now, this world has to be destroyed, so that all things get back to the beginning, for the wickedness of this world has gone way too bloody far. I Michael speak the words, God Himself will do the rest.

For your foolishness, your mad world might not agree, but when it comes down to it, this earth will give in to what God commands, even if it means breaking in to pierces...

