 
The Village Café: NEW BLOODS

Copyright 2014

Eraine Rivera

Published by Eraine Rivera at Smashwords

Smashwords Edition License Notes

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

The Village Cafe: New Bloods

I wish I knew where to begin, but I myself am still trying to put the pieces together. Hell, Devilynn was the one who began all this. I mean, I'm no writer and I'm not sure if any of this shit is going to make sense. I guess I'll just write the way I speak and the way others speak. I mean I did keep a diary when I was a little girl but this is something different. You're probably thinking to yourself, why bother, right? Same here. I guess I bother because it's what Devilynn would have wanted. This was her story, her baby, she started and I promised to keep it going if she could not. So I only hope I can do her justice and not fuck this up. Alright, here goes nothing.

It seemed like years but it's only been months. I guess time is different for immortals, no need to rush cause time is all you have when you are beyond the conventional death that plagues humanity. The one thing we do take for granted is death. Our mistake is we think we are beyond it, hell, I've died three times in my twenty two years of life and I'm still terrified of the final unknown. You're probably wondering why I'm obsessing over death? Well that's all I'm surrounded by, death.

We killed so many people in New York before the three of us headed to Europe, not long after we destroyed Ariana. to find others like us. It seemed Ariana had quite the following of people who were willing to die in her name and that they did. Those that were unsure ran for their lives, hopefully they wouldn't return. We were afraid more would be out there spread across the globe waiting to get their hands on us but we had to search for the truth. In such a short time everyone's world was turned upside down and left in shambles. I mean finding out your entire life was a lie made up to cover some kind of uglier truth is hard to swallow enough but throw in demons, vampires and werewolves, well it makes it that much more complicated.

The elders told us to prepare for the coming war and left us to find our own paths, they said it was important and the way it should always be, but we beg to differ. We were alone and naive, only armed with a fraction of knowledge of what has happened in the past. I was starting to think that maybe they didn't know anything or maybe we shouldn't be asking about the past, maybe that was worse than the future, at least we can control that.

It all started two months after we headed to Spain to follow the only lead we had. Rick found out that his parents were originally from Spain or at least his mom was, so we decided to track his roots and hopefully that would lead to more answers for the rest of us. After a week of searching we found a young girl in an alleyway feeding on a stray dog. She snarled and ran away when she saw us but she wasn't fast enough to outrun me. I cornered her a few blocks away and held her down. She squirmed and squealed as she tried to wriggle free. Rick caught up to us and approached the girl with caution.

"We won't hurt you. We are just like you. My name is Rick." He said kneeling down next to the girl. She looked at Rick and then at me, her eyes filled with fear.

"She won't hurt you. We just want to talk. Do you promise not to run?" The girl nodded at Rick. "Belinda?" I looked at Rick and nodded before getting off the girl and turning back to my human form. The girl sat up and put her back against the wall. I didn't want to scare her by turning into a wolf and attacking an innocent girl but I knew I couldn't catch a child vampire in my human form.

"My name is Rick, this is Belinda. What's your name?"

"Selene." The girl whispered. She had to be about ten or so. She seemed so small and fragile covered in dirt and tattered clothing. She had a round face with hazel eyes and brown hair that hung in two long braids. Selene was a skinny thing and you could tell she had been feeding on animals since she was turned.

"Do you have a place to stay? Anyone to look after you?" Rick asked.

"No. I've been alone for months now." She answered in her tiny voice. I had to perk up my wolf ears just to hear her.

"Where are your parents?" I asked. She looked at me with the saddest eyes that almost broke my heart.

"Dead. A demon murdered them and he murdered me too." She whispered as she looked up at the sky, fighting back tears that were starting to form.

We took Selene back to our hotel and let her take a shower and gave her some fresh clothes. Luckily between Devilynn and myself we had clothes that fit her. Crop tops and skimpy shorts fit her like they were made for her. I won't say whose was whose, but anyway she was a beautiful girl. She sat and told us her story while I brushed her hair.

"We were asleep when it happened. I woke up to check on my parents because I had a nightmare that they were dead. When I walked into their room I saw a man with white eyes and sharp teeth tearing the flesh from my mother's throat. I screamed and he tossed my mother to the side and grabbed me. He said I was exactly what he needed and then he sank his teeth into my neck. I felt myself drift into darkness and when I woke up I was in a morgue. I got scared and ran out of there and roamed the streets. I felt hungry and checked the garbage cans for food but it didn't help. Then I saw a stray dog and made friends with it. As I pet it I started to feel the sharp teeth come out and I grabbed the dog and bit it. The blood made me feel better and I've been eating them since."

"Did you ever see the man again?" Rick asked.

Selene shook her head. Rick looked at me before telling Selene what she was. The girl listened intently trying hard to understand the nightmare she was in.

"So I'm like that evil man?"

"Not if you don't want to be. I'm a vampire but I'm a good person. The choice is up to you Selene. If you want you can stay with us. We are trying to find others like us so we won't be alone. Would you like to stay with us?"

"Yes Rick. I would like that very much."

Selene became our tour guide and helped us get around easier. She told us that she was born in London and her parents moved here about five years ago. Selene found out her parents moved a lot. It seemed like they were always running from something, they were scared but Selene never knew why. I started to think that her parent's murder was not a random act of violence by a crazed vampire but part of something bigger.

We followed ghost trails that led to dead ends for a few days before Devilynn showed up. She had been gone for almost two weeks and didn't say why. She left a note saying she had to speak with her mother Athena about a few things and she would be back soon. Rick held her tight and kissed her lips.

"I've missed you so much. Why did you leave without saying a word?"

"It's just something I had to do. Besides I left a note." Devilynn said as she pulled away from Rick and came over to me. I hugged her before slapping her arm playfully.

"You had us worried there for a minute but I'm glad you're back. Care to fill us in on what's going on. I mean Rick tried to reach the elders but there was no answer." I said lighting a cigarette. Devilynn's eyes clouded over as she sat down on the sofa and took a deep breath.

"I hate to sound like Mortakie and Helena but there are things in motion that none of us can control and there will have to be some hard decisions made. We know it all leads into a war that's fast approaching and there isn't much time for feelings to get in the way. The elders can't interfere until the very end. It's how things have always been." Devilynn trailed off staring into the bedroom. We turned to see Selene standing there partially hiding behind the door,

"It's alright sweetie. You can come out." I said calling her over. Selene walked out timidly and stood behind Rick. She held his hand and peaked out at Devilynn.

"Selene this is Devilynn. She's our friend." Rick said as he moved aside so they could meet each other. Devilynn smiled at Selene and waved.

"Nice to meet you Selene." Devilynn said extending her hand. Selene stepped away from Rick and slowly made her way to Devilynn not taking her eyes off of her. She reached out her hand and shook Devilynn's. Selene stood frozen for a moment as she stared in Devilynn's eyes. I watched Devilynn's eyes turn red and Selene pulled away and ran over to me. She was shaking uncontrollably.

"What's the matter Selene? Devilynn what happened?" I asked trying to calm the girl. Devilynn looked at me and then to Rick.

"I have to go. I'm not sure if I'm coming back."

"What do you mean Devilynn?" Rick asked.

"I'm sorry I can't say. Forgive me guys." Devilynn said as she stood up. Rick pulled her to him and held her tight. I could see the pain in her eyes.

"I just got you. I don't want to lose you again. Please don't leave me." Rick begged. Devilynn pulled away from him and kissed his lips.

"It's easier if you just let me go Rick." Devilynn said her voice quivered and cracked as she pulled away.

"No. I won't do it. Devilynn please!" Rick begged reaching out for her.

Devilynn turned away from Rick and started to walk away. He grabbed her arm.

"Rick, please let go." Devilynn said, her body tensing up.

"Devilynn." He begged.

Devilynn turned and grabbed Rick by the throat. Her eyes were red and her fangs were out. Selene whimpered in my arms.

"Don't make me hurt you Rick. Forget about me and forget about us. The next time I see you both it will not be as friends." She hissed through clenched fangs and threw Rick against the wall before disappearing in a cloud of black smoke. Rick stood rubbing his throat and turned into a mist to chase after Devilynn. I stayed with Selene still shaking in my arms.

"That woman is evil." She said holding me tight.

"Why do you say that Selene?" I asked as I carried her into the bedroom. Days with us were long and hard and this child definitely needed some rest.

"I felt it when she touched my hand. There was darkness and hatred and it burned. I saw it in her eyes, she is death." Selene said as I plopped her down on the bed.

"Devilynn wasn't always like that. She was a normal girl who was dragged into a world she didn't understand. Everything happened so fast, for all of us but she wasn't evil at all. When I met her she was sweet just like you." I said smiling as I looked down at Selene. Her eyes lit up for a moment before clouding over.

"Does it hurt?" She asked touching my hand.

"What?" I asked looking at Selene confused.

"When you change? I didn't see you change or hear you. I was just wondering. It looks painful in the movies."

"It is but after doing it so many times you don't really feel it. I can control how much of a wolf I want to be. I could stay human with claws and fangs if I want. I find it helps with the transformation. I could make it look painful but that's more of a scare tactic." I said winking. Selene smiled and tucked herself under the covers. I pulled them up to her chin and kissed her forehead. Selene smiled and rolled to her right side before closing her eyes.

I stayed till I heard Selene's little snore before making my way out to the living room to wait for Rick. I had some time to think and that's the worst time of all. The more answers I had, the more questions there were. Devilynn was my friend. I mean I know she's the child of darkness but I never thought for a minute that would make us mortal enemies. I don't think I could even hurt Devilynn if the time came and I could only hope she felt the same. Fate can be a shitty bed mate sometimes.

I thought about what the elders told us, that we were a new breed of demons, vampires and werewolves, a mixture of half breeds and pure bloods and so on and so forth. It seemed like there were rules that had to be followed but no one had a manual for it. We had to find our own way but we had no history to base anything on. I tried to reach out to the fallen elders who are now werewolves but even they hid themselves from me. Frustration started to set in and despair wasn't far behind.

A few hours later Rick returned, his face stained with blood and his eyes were red and swollen. He sat down on the floor in front of me and hung his head.

"I tried to go after her but she was too fast. What do we do now? I don't want to lose her Belinda."

"I know Rick, I don't want to lose her either and I'm not sure why she left. The only thing I could think of is that she is a child of darkness now. Maybe she's not allowed to speak with us."

"Bullshit! Ariana spoke to Eraina, hell she spoke to all of us. I don't buy it. It's not a good product your sellin' sister." Rick slurred as he lashed out with his arm.

"Are you drunk?"

"Yes, I fed on a wino or two and their alcohol is filtering through my system. It'll pass."

"Vampires can get drunk?" I asked smiling at his odd behavior. Rick was always so calm and collective, it was weird seeing him this way.

"Yes from the blood of drunk victims as I just stated. Why is that so hard to believe! Never mind me, Devilynn is the focus, let us go back there." He said waving me away.

"I stand by my earlier statement, It's the best explanation I got Rick. I've tried reaching out but no one is answering me."

"Where do we go from here Belinda? I'm lost without her." He sighed and slumped back against the wall in defeat.

"I know Rick. I guess we just keep going and try to find others like us. We have Selene to think about now. We can't just leave her."

"We shouldn't drag her into this either."

"I know Rick but who better to protect and teach her. This is our path for now."

Rick said nothing as he got up and headed into the bedroom. I followed him in and pulled the curtains tight and taped them down, the sun would be up soon. He laid down on the bed next to Selene and looked at her.

"Have you ever seen anything so beautifully innocent in your life Belinda?"

A CHILD'S DREAM

I went out just before sunset to take a walk and clear my head. Everything happened so fast it was hard to process. I sat down at an outside café to have a cup of coffee and relax. I lit a cigarette and exhaled.

"Excuse me you wouldn't happen to have another one to spare would you?" I looked up to see a young man standing in front of me. He was about 5'11 with a lanky build. He was dressed in black from head to toe and wore a pair of dark shades. He had short blond hair and an enchanting smile.

"Sure." I said pulling out a cigarette and handing it to him. He took it and put it in his mouth and started to check his pockets. Smirking I pulled out my lighter and lit his cigarette for him. He exhaled the smoke and smiled at me.

"Do you mind if I join you?"

"Not at all." I said as he took a seat. A waitress came out and handed him a cup.

"Here's your latte hun, just the way you like it."

"Thanks Vivian." He said as he took a sip. "Amazing as always." The waitress smiled and sauntered away.

"I'm Daniel by the way." He said extending his hand.

"Belinda." I said shaking his hand. It was soft and warm to the touch.

"So what brings you to Spain? Vacation, honeymoon, research?" He asked as he leaned back in the chair and took a drag. I watched as he made small circles of smoke with his mouth and lost my train of thought for the moment.

"Research. I'm a student." I said snapping back from my reverie.

"Sure you are. A real scholar indeed." He smiled taking another drag.

"Why do you say it like that? Is it hard to believe or something? You know you should never judge a book by its cover." I babbled on trying to convince him otherwise.

Daniel leaned in and pulled his sunglasses down. I saw his blue eyes turn yellow.

"Cause I know you're a werewolf same as me. A young one at that."

I leaned back and took a drag of my cigarette, trying to hide the fear and excitement that was stirring inside me. Things were about to get interesting.

"I didn't expect to find werewolves in Spain or anywhere else for that matter. In a world full of people I've never felt so alone." I said ditching out my cigarette.

"You're searching for vampires, allies in the upcoming war, someone who could give you answers to the burning questions. Trust me the elders will tell you nothing. They've been silent for so long, the vampire elders that is. I could take you to meet some werewolf elders that are not scared to tell you what happened."

"I would love that. Clarity is not a luxury afforded me now a days." I said in my worst British accent while batting my eyes. Daniel laughed.

"If you come it can only be you. The elders are skittish around vampires and witches."

"Sorry I only keep the company of vampires and werewolves. Witches and me don't mix." I said taking a sip of my coffee.

"They will soon enough." Daniel replied with a smile.

I sat there having idle conversation with Daniel. He wouldn't tell me much about these elders but gave me a brief history about himself. He was only 17 when he was turned back in 1908 and was a vampire up until 1918 when he was attacked by a group of vampires and left for dead. He awoke just before sunrise and crawled into an abandoned building and slept there for days until he was strong enough to stand.

"I wasn't sure what I was when I woke up but I learned quickly and kept to myself for the next 20 years until I came here and found others one night while tracking the scent of those that killed me."

"Their scent?"

"Yes. We are animalistic by nature, werewolves that is. You know the vampire gene mutates constantly. That's why vampires from long ago are not the same as us and even the ones of the last few hundred years are all different. I've ran into vampires that can change form and control minds and cast spells. Some can walk out in the daytime and others don't even need to drink blood or kill humans for that matter."

"Wow. It seems you met a lot of different people in your travels. Did you ever find the person that changed you into a vampire?"

"No. I never saw it coming. I liked to drink back in those days and they were dark days indeed. I came to and hungered for blood. I lived my life as vampire till I was murdered and born again as a werewolf. Can't say I met any vampires in those years, can't say I wanted to."

"I understand being alone once you were turned. I never had the chance to be a vampire, only a werewolf and I'm not sure how to be that."

"There is so much more to tell you but that I will save for another time." Daniel said rising. I had to stop myself from practically begging him to stay with me. He was the best lead I had and I didn't want to lose him but I had to be cautious, for all I knew he was one of Ariana's goons and this was all a trap.

"When will I see you again?"

"I'll find you." Daniel said and walked away. I watched him until he disappeared in the distance. It had grown dark and I had to get back to the hotel. I paid for my coffee and walked back. I was so wrapped up in my thoughts that I didn't hear Selene's hysteric cries until Rick rushed past me and into the room. He scooped her up in his arms and held her tight.

"Come now Selene, what is the matter I heard you crying almost a mile away." Rick said rocking her back and forth while stroking her hair.

"I dreamt about the lady with the red hair. She's hurting."

"Do you mean Devilynn? Selene what's happened to her? Selene!" Rick was shaking her. I grabbed his arm and pulled him away. Rick glared at me and I pointed to Selene. She was sitting on the bed staring into space. I crouched down in front of her and waved my hand in front of her face. Selene did not move or even flinch. I turned to Rick.

"I can't be evil father. There's still some humanity in me." It was Devilynn's voice coming out of Selene. Rick grabbed Selene's arm and stopped. He too was staring straight ahead.

"That will subside child. You took on this role as the dark child, you can't turn away from it now." Satan's voice came out of Rick. I stood there in shock and disbelief. I wasn't sure if I should scream or knock them out or just let it play out.

"I don't want to face my friends in the war. I didn't ask for any of this. "

"You, like all the others, think you have a choice in all this. Each and every one of you are pawns in this ongoing game between me and Him, nothing more."

"You can't make me be evil!"

"You already are. Lose your humanity now or risk upsetting a very delicate balance and damning you and everyone else."

"What you are asking me to do is crazy! I will not kill."

"You will kill them! It is their time. You will become evil."

That was all I heard before the two of them broke out of their trance. They stared at me and then at each other.

"What happened?" Rick asked.

"That's what I want to know?" I said looking at Selene wide eyed.

"I'm sorry, you touched me and I pulled you in. It happens a lot." Selene said looking down.

"What do you mean sweetie?" I said sitting down next to her on the bed.

"The red hair lady, I saw her before. I saw all of you. I watched them kill the witch. It hurts to look through their eyes, especially the red hair lady, it burns."

"What do you mean it happens a lot? Since you became a vampire? Who else have you looked through?" I asked trying to understand what she was trying to tell us.

"No before. Since I was young. I would go places when I was scared and sometimes I would bring people with me. I'm not sure why." Selene finished as she rubbed her eyes and laid down. "I've seen through many eyes, too many, wish I could cut mine out."

Selene started to shake and the tears began to form.

"Do you remember anything Rick?"

"Wish I did. I only remember grabbing her hand then feeling really hot, sour...evil."

"We'll I'm not sure why but Selene seems to have a connection with us. What I just heard was Devilynn and Satan talking not you guys."

"Devilynn? Is she alright?" Rick said rising.

"She's heading down a bad path. She warned us to stay away for a reason. She's a child of darkness now and we're on the side of good. The two can't mix. I'm not sure how this all plays out but I guess she either destroys us or we destroy her."

"Are you fucking nuts? Kill my girlfriend!" I looked at Rick and his eyes were red and his fangs bared.

"Easy Rick I didn't say that. I'm just telling you what I heard you guys saying." I said as I transformed into a wolf and eased myself off the bed. I needed to be ready for anything because Rick was on the edge of nothing right now.

"So if I want to be with my love I have to be evil. So be it then. I'll finish what Ariana started."

"No Rick it's not what Devilynn would have wanted." I said.

"Fuck Devilynn! I'm tired of what she wants. It's what I want and that's her."

"Rick you're talking crazy just calm down." I said stepping forward. His eyes got redder and he disappeared in cloud of black smoke.

"He will die." Selene said as the tears started to fall.

I consoled Selene as best as I could and asked her to take a walk with me. The night was calm and breezy as we walked along in silence. All I could think about was Selene. Who would show her the ways of a vampire? I never lived long enough to learn. Do we bring her into this madness? Is she safer with us, me for that matter? Hell if I had any friends left I'd ship her off to New York. It wouldn't be a bad idea to take her there myself and forget this madness, maybe if we hid the war would pass us by.

"Hello Belinda." I turned to see a dark shadow standing behind us. I stepped in front of Selene and crouched slightly as my eyes turned green and claws came out.

"I'm not sure how you know me but I sure as fuck don't know you." I hissed baring my fangs. The shadow walked forward exposing just his crystal blue eyes. Selene gasped and grabbed my shoulder and climbed onto my back. I transformed into full were wolf.

"It seems the brat remembers me but I assure you that I'm not him. He's my twin brother and he's dead as a result of that little darling and I'm curious as to why."

"Well you know what curiosity does!" I answered scanning the area with my eyes. Something didn't feel right and every nerve was on edge.

"Cute, so indulge me little one." The man said not taking his eyes off of Selene. She started to tremble violently. I could feel her heartbeat racing faster and it made my blood boil. I wanted to rip him apart but not only was I alone, I had Selene to protect and this kept me here contemplating other alternatives.

"Your brother murdered her family, he got what he deserved." I answered.

"I know he killed more than just her parents. That little darling right there should not be breathing and yet here she is. Which leads me to believe she must be a full breed, but one simply can't tell with this generation of vampires, but even more so, why did my brother spontaneously combust three days after killing her family."

"I don't know, why don't, you go ask him."

"He's dead you bitch!" The man screamed losing his calm.

"I know you dense fuck. I'm telling you to go kill yourself and stop wasting my fucking time."

His laughter echoed in the night, then his calm voice returned.

"Good show my dear! I do enjoy a bout of good banter but my patience wears thin. Now hand the child over!"

"Over my dead body." I said crouching back. "No matter what happens Selene you hold onto me tight, you got it."

"Yes." Selene answered and I felt her grip tighten.

"I can arrange that. I have heard that you have been a real pain in the ass in New York." His voice trailed off in the distance as I ran faster. He could stand there and talk all he wanted but I had to get away and keep Selene safe.

I hit a dead end and jumped to the rooftops to cover more ground. Normally I would enjoy a good night run as a wolf with the wind passing through my fur and the world becoming a complete blur as I sped along but this was a run for survival. I focused my attention on Selene. Her breath came in short bursts and I could feel her grip tighten.

"Belinda I'm scared." She said shaking.

"It's alright honey I won't let them hurt you." I said jumping to another rooftop and continued to run. I would go for miles if I had to just to keep her out of harm's way.

"Not for me but you. Evil comes."

I was knocked off the roof by a powerful force. I rolled and pulled Selene in front of me just as my back hit the floor. I howled from the pain and tried to get up as Selene was yanked from my arms.

"Belinda!" She cried out. I looked up to see a man with a gun pointed at me. Rolling out of the way I jumped at the guy and knocked him to the floor. I was yanked back by two guys and struggled in their grasp as a blunt object hit me in the back of my head knocking me to my knees. I looked up at the man with the gun.

"Go ahead and pull that trigger and after I'll rip your heart out." I growled.

"Belinda, such a silly girl. You think you're invincible or maybe you think that gun is full of regular bullets." I looked up pass the man holding the gun and saw him. The blue eyed bastard smiled when he saw my expression change from anger to a moment of fear. "Yes, silver bullets do work on werewolves." He finished with a smile as he held Selene tight. Growling I lunged at the man with the gun and heard a loud bang before searing pain ripped through my body. Every organ burned and my vision started to blur. The shooter pushed me off him and I laid on the ground trying to breathe. I felt the silver running through my veins cutting off the circulation in my body and shutting my organs down.

"Belinda!" Selene cried as she wrenched free from the man and knelt over me. "Please don't die. I need you." She begged. I raised my shaking hand to her face and wiped a tear from her eye before darkness set in. I heard Selene scream.

"When you get to Hell tell Lucifer that Sebastian sent you." I heard the man say followed by the sound of footsteps and laughter, then silence.

The New Bloods

They say when you die there's a bright light and all your loved ones are standing there to greet you, but there was no light only darkness. I sensed around and found nothing. There was no sound only deafening silence. You hear so many cliché phrases and stories about death and how it's either a great experience or a really horrid one. At that moment I was having neither. It was just unsettling darkness and nothing more. I only hoped I wasn't on a descent to Hell or worse, stuck in limbo. That would've been a fucking drag.

"Did you get it out Gerald?" Daniel's voice echoed in the darkness. I turned around trying to pinpoint the voice.

"It was tough man but yeah I got it. She's lucky man, a few inches to the left and she'd be worm food."

"Daniel!" I screamed in fear and excitement. My voice echoed breaking the silence and almost scaring me half to death, if I wasn't dead already that is.

"Belinda if you can hear me it's Daniel. Follow my voice and come back."

I searched around in the darkness hoping Daniel would pop out and lead me home but there was still just darkness. My heart began to race and I could feel the blood pounding in my ears.

"How!" I called out trying to keep my voice calm. I wasn't sure if he could even hear me.

"Just pick a direction and run. Trust me."

I looked around and started running. I couldn't see where I was going and the darkness stretched on for what seemed like hours until the light started to show. I ran faster feeling my lungs tighten and my legs cramp but I pushed on. The light started to get brighter and I could see it was coming from an open door. I lunged and burst through the door to what I hoped was safety. My eyes snapped open and I bolted up before crying out in pain. All my senses went ramped for a moment. I felt like a generator in an old building that got turned back on. Life shot into me and I almost choked on the first breath I took. Gerald eased me back down.

"Take it easy amiga, you took a bullet to the chest and lived to tell the tale, don't end the story just yet." Gerald said laughing. My eyes darted around for a moment trying to focus. I kept looking around until my vision steadied itself and I saw that I was in an operating room.

"Don't mind your surgeon with the terrible bedside manner." Daniel said smiling at me. I looked at him wide eyed and confused. This had to be a dream or a trap or something.

"What you mean Danny? I'm awesome in bed. No complaints from the ladies. They love their Gerald."

"What happened?" I said my mouth feeling dry. Gerald poured me a glass of water and handed it to me. I took a small sip not wanting to choke myself to death when I just came back to life, besides I wasn't too sure if everything in me worked at that moment.

"That's what we were wondering. Me and the boys found you passed out in an ally. We thought you were dead but then I recognized you from Danny boy's picture and said shit that's his woman and I brought you here and called Danny." Gerald said as Daniel punched him on the shoulder.

"Dick."

"Easy cabron I was just messing with you, no need to get all hairy on me man. Get it? Hairy, ha ha. But for real though he's got the only crush on you, sabes?" Gerald said laughing as he rubbed his shoulder and dodged another swing from Daniel. The fogginess started to lift and I felt a bit better. I tried to tell them what happened.

"Some asshole named Sebastian, he grabbed Selene. Rick's gone. I have to get Selene." I said trying to sit up again this time Daniel eased me back down.

"You need rest. A silver bullet hurts and takes time to heal. Like Gerald said a few inches more and." Daniel's voice trailed off.

"What about Selene?" I asked trying to focus.

"No worries on the little one. I got my homies checking everything out. That Sebastian is a mean fucker but he wouldn't hurt the girl or at least he couldn't. That girl is special."

"How do you know that or any of this?" I asked turning my head to Gerald trying to regain focus. He was average height, thin with a long oval face and short hair. He had these light brown eyes that twinkled with every word he said. I'm guessing it was part of the charm that the ladies went crazy over.

"Whispers in the night. The moon she talks to us a lot. Shows us things sometimes." Gerald said before going back to cleaning his tools.

"I told you I had a lot of things to tell you. I just didn't expect this to happen to you." Daniel breathed looking into my eyes.

"This? What exactly is this? I need clarification or I'm about to wolf out the only way a woman can. So before I start cracking nuts around here."

"Danny, please talk to your lady, I've grown attached to my balls man. We've seen a lot of strange shit together and man am I glad I'm clean. Shit!" Gerald said placing his hands in front of his crotch. Daniel rolled his eyes before looking at me.

Daniel went on to explain that the people he ran with were mixed. Some were werewolves, vampires, witches but his groups never ran together. He considered himself an ambassador between the species to eventually bring them together but they all agreed on one thing. "The light is too bright for the darkness to show us the way." He wasn't sure exactly what that meant and the clans, as Daniel called them, never explained.

"Do any of them ever speak straight?" I asked sitting up slowly. I felt a pillow being raised behind my back.

"Straight, shit we're lucky if the viejo's speak at all. They say it taints us to hear the tail of their time." Gerald said as he fluffed the pillow behind me.

"Shit, sounds like Mortakie and the elders, but I thought a lot of them were killed in the last war." I said taking another sip of water.

"See that's just it, most were, but for some reason they come back as apparitions and sometimes in flesh. They yap their gibberish and then disappear for awhile." Daniel said lighting a cigarette.

"Oye! You know the rules man."

"It's not for me Gerald." Daniel said as he handed me the cigarette. I looked at Gerald and he rolled his eyes before turning on the vent and closing the curtain. I took a long drag of the cigarette and allowed the flow of nicotine work its magic on me. Closing my eyes for a moment I swear I heard Selene call my name. My eyes snapped open and I looked around.

"Did you guys hear that?" The room was empty. "Daniel? Gerald?"

"No one can hear you Belinda. It's just you and me here." Sebastian answered I jumped out of the bed and transformed.

"Show yourself fucker!"

Sebastian appeared behind me and grabbed me around the waist. I growled and tried to break free only to realize I was back to my human form.

"That's right Belinda. You're in my world now and you have no power here. I could actually kill you right now and it would look like you had a heart attack to the outside world." He whispered in my ear.

"What the fuck are you?" I asked.

"Aside from the man of your dreams that makes you tremble as you do now love. I am your undoing. You'll soon learn, my dear, that for every powerful being you encounter good or evil there is a polar opposite. You see, our masters thrive on balance, odd considering they have us all fight to tip the scales in either direction. Some sense of balance they have right."

"What's your point? Where's Selene? If you hurt her."

"My point will be made clear soon enough dear and as for your precious Selene. Well, I would be more worried about you and your other friends. Let them know that they can practice all the hoodoo voodoo they want but it won't stop me." Sebastian said as he kissed my cheek. My eyes snapped open and I looked around. Daniel and Gerald just stared at me confused. I told them what had just happened to me.

"Damn, this shit is serious bro. I mean here we thought all this time what we did was working and now, shit." Gerald said running his hand through his hair.

"It was Sebastian invading my conscious. What the fuck is he? And what hoodoo voodoo have you guys been up to?"

"It's nothing really, just some protection spells and shit. You know old people chanting and dancing, typical Spanish shit." Gerald mumbled as he started to do a little salsa dance.

"We are not sure but I know someone who can explain that to us once you are better." Daniel said as he rubbed my arm.

"I told you I don't have time for that! I have to protect Selene." I begged gripping Daniel's arm tighter and staring into his eyes. Daniel's eyes clouded over and he turned to Gerald.

"Gerald do you have it?"

"One step ahead of you bro." Gerald said as I felt the stab of a needle in my neck and the searing rush of fire through my veins. I howled and transformed into a wolf and backed into a corner. My senses went wild and every nerve was on edge. I saw Daniel slowly walk towards me with his arms out trying to calm me down. He was being very cautious.

"Easy Belinda, just breathe through it and will yourself back to human form." Daniel said taking a deep breath.

"What is this? The power, it feels great." I said hearing my own voice sounding gruff and almost demon like. I felt like I could rip the walls down and jump to the moon and no one could stop me. I wanted to find Sebastian at that very moment and rip him to shreds.

"I can't tell you right now please Belinda." Daniel begged his eyes piercing into mine. I stared mesmerized by his glistening orbs not realizing I had already returned to human form and I wasn't in any pain.

"Let's go Belinda we have much to do and the sky has grown dark." Daniel said as he stood straight up and lowered his arms.

"Where we going?" I asked shaking my body to get rid of the tingles.

"Bonfire on the beach." Daniel said smiling as he held out his hand.

"Geez Danny that family creeps me out."

"Shut up Gerald you don't have to come." Danny said as I took his hand and he led me towards the exit.

"I won't that guy Alfie scares me. He just stares and smiles but doesn't say a word. You never know what the fucker is thinking. He might wanna cut off your pinga and use it as a hair tie." Gerald finished as he shook the chills off.

"Later Gerald and thanks."

"No prob Danny, just take care of the lady ok."

We walked out of the hospital and into the early night. Daniel wouldn't tell me what was in the needle that Gerald stabbed me with. He just said it was an old recipe Gerald had from his family to heal wounds quickly but this worked instantly.

"So what else are you not allowed to tell me?" I asked snatching the cigarette out of Daniel's mouth and taking a drag. He laughed and lit another one for himself.

"I have to make sure I can trust you. I run with different groups that hate each other with a passion because of old family feuds that should've died long ago. They trust me with many secrets but we've heard lots of stories and rumors about New York and the friends you keep. It makes everyone edgy. So the more you confide in me, the better and vice versa."

"There isn't much to tell. One minute life was normal and then the next all hell broke loose, literally. There were these elders who are vampires and others that were turned into werewolves when they were murdered by other vampires."

"Wait. You weren't born a werewolf?" Daniel asked surprised.

"No supposedly I was a half breed vampire on a special hit list sanctioned by a crazy witch. One night at a club I was attacked by a group of vampires that fed and drained me until I was dead or so I thought. I woke up hungry and alone. I came to find out vampires that are bled dry mutate into werewolves. That was pretty much my Friday night, why?"

"Can't say. I've met some that are born into it. It's imbedded in their generic code."

"So what's the difference?" I asked looking around and taking in the night beauty for the first time ever. The air smelled sweet and salty and the sea tickled my nose.

"Powers I guess, it's the same as vampires, some are day walkers and there are werewolves who can change into two forms. One is into an actual wolf and the other is well a wolf with human form."

"Personally I think the human wolf form is much more intimidating and I look hot." I said feeling alive again for the first time in months. If I didn't know any better I would have thought I'd been drugged. It was a good feeling though.

"I can't argue with that." Daniel said smiling. I looked into his eyes and felt an overwhelming urge to kiss him. It kind of felt like we were on a date or something and not on our way to meet a bunch of super natural creatures with some insight into the dream haunting Sebastian.

Daniel knew way more than I did and I had a feeling there was a lot more to be learned. We walked in silence and it gave me time to think about Devilynn and Rick. I couldn't shake the feeling of dread and Devilynn's warning about the next time we met. I thought about Selene and what was happening to her. I just hoped she was ok until I could rescue her.

We turned onto the beach and headed toward a bonfire. In the distance I could see the waves crashing to the shore. There were a few people sitting around the fire drinking and smoking and having a great time. Daniel walked over to them.

"Hey guys."

"Daniel! Long time dude, we missed you man. Where's Gerald and his lap dog." One of the guys shouted raising his beer as everyone laughed and clinked cans.

"You guys. I want you to meet a friend of mine Belinda." Daniel said bringing me forward. They all stopped and stared at me. Two of them disappeared and reappeared behind me. I turned and hissed at them ready for anything.

"Easy guys, she's cool." Daniel said.

"The stench of evil is on her." The girl to my right hissed through clenched fangs. I couldn't see her face only a main of brown hair.

"This charming dear is Kaitlyn and the young man is her overprotective brother Marcus. They're both vampires."

"Shut up Daniel, we don't know her like that for you to be spreading our business." Kaitlyn said narrowing her eyes.

"Yes because it's such a big secret." Daniel joked.

"Fuck you Daniel!" Kaitlyn cursed.

"We already tried that Kaitlyn and honestly it was terrible."

"You piece of shit!" Marcus hissed stepping forward.

"Stuff it Marcus, you won't do anything without Alfie's permission." Marcus stopped and looked at me before hissing and running into the ocean, disappearing from view. Kaitlyn followed her brother into the ocean.

"That was rough. Vampires always so tense?" I asked looking out at the ocean. The moonlight glistened on the water bringing me a moment of peace.

"Just them. The water will cool them off." Daniel replied.

"Vampires can swim?" I asked looking back at him.

"Only some Belinda. Pure breds are the most powerful because they have two vampire parents."

"How is that possible?"

"Not sure but vampires have been evolving. We are all species regardless and evolution is a part of life." Daniel said pulling me pass the bonfire and toward the water. At the shores edge stood a woman with black hair blowing in the wind. Her arms were raised slightly and she was chanting.

"Hey sea hag." Daniel said as he lit a cigarette.

"I have a name." She said not taking her eyes off the water.

I looked at the surfers bobbing up and down waiting for the perfect wave.

"You love to make them wait sea hag don't you." Daniel said laughing. A strong gust of wind knocked Daniel on his ass.

"Geez can he really hear me from here?"

"Sound travels on the wind Daniel so of course Cody can hear you from anywhere he chooses, especially when you piss off his baby sister."

"My apologies sea ha-, I mean Frankie." Daniel said as he picked himself off the ground. I looked out at the ocean watching the moon light dance on the rippling waves and thought back to my first date at Coney Island. I had the only crush on this guy and couldn't wait for him to kiss me at the shores edge. I remember looking out over the ocean as the bright moon lit up the water and being so happy. I turned to my crush and saw Daniel smiling back at me.

"Yo sea hag lets go I'm jonesing for a sick wave!" One of the guys yelled from the water. I snapped out of my reverie and looked back at the ocean.

"Fucking vampires." Frankie huffed before closing her eyes and raising her arms. I looked out toward the water and saw a large wave starting to form in the distance.

"That's what we're talking about Frankie! A wave so big not even the great Alfie can handle it!" One of the guys called from the bonfire. I watched as each surfer one by one got swallowed up by the huge wave as they tried to surf it. Out of the barrel of the wave a man shot out and everyone cheered. The guy rode the wave in calmly and stepped onto the beach and walked up to Daniel. It took me a moment to process the fact that he didn't have a surfboard, so how was he riding that wave?

"Sick ride as always Alfie." Daniel said clasping Alfie's hand and slapping his back. "I want you to meet Belinda, she's the one I told you about."

Alfie looked me up and down before putting his hand on my face. He was dark skinned and had green penetrating eyes that seemed to glow but it had to be the beads of water clinging to his long hair reflecting the light from the bonfire. His touch was soft and comforting. Alfie smiled exposing a row of perfect white teeth before removing his hand and walking back to the bonfire. I turned to Daniel.

"Alfie isn't much for talking, he feels you hear more when you're silent." Daniel offered.

"I guess that makes him a great listener then Daniel." I said laughing.

"Oh, a joke, I get it, very funny." Daniel said laughing as we walked back to the bonfire.

"So how was he surfing without a surfboard?"

"Magic." Daniel whispered in my ear as he sat us next to Alfie.

Daniel explained everything that happened since I've met with him in Spain and Alfie smiled and looked at me. He held out his hand and I took it, it was soft and smooth. I looked into his eyes again and couldn't look away.

'Tell me about New York and please speak only in your mind.' I heard his voice in my head.

'What? Is this some kind of a joke?'

'No Belinda. I can give you answers if you need them.'

'How were you surfing without a board?'

'Natural vampire talent, sprinkled with some old world voodoo and you be surprised with what you can do. Now tell me about New York.'

'There isn't much to tell. Besides New York is not my concern right now I'm more worried about Selene and the bastard that has her.'

'Is Ariana dead? Has a dark child taken her place?'

'Yes. Now answer me about Selene.'

'So it begins.'

"You don't have to say a word Alfie but I can read your face so well, always have." We all looked up to see a girl with long blond hair and crystal blue eyes towering over us.

'Excuse me, ex-girlfriend drama.' Alfie said before letting go of my hand severing the connection.

"I'll give you ex-girlfriend drama Alfie. I hate when you project your thoughts for everyone to hear."

"Belinda may I introduce to you, her majesty of the earth, guardian of all things natural and a huge pain in Alfie's eternal ass! Torrie!" Kaitlyn announced as she rose and took a bow. Torrie smiled and raised her hand, she turned it slightly and sand shot up burying Kaitlyn from head to toe. The other vampires laughed before helping Marcus unearth his sister.

Alfie walked over to Torrie and raised his hand. Torrie raised her hand and hovered it next to Alfie's hand.

"Why does Alfie talk through thoughts? It's kind of creepy." I asked Daniel.

"Wish I knew why. Some say his parents were a vampire and a high priestess. Others say his voice is so gorgeous it would make angels weep." Daniel said smiling. I pinched his arm.

"You must be Belinda." Torrie said towering over me. I looked up at her. "I'll make this brief. Sebastian won't hurt your little girl if you agree to kill the child of light." Torrie said looking at her nails. My heart jumped. She knew where Selene was.

"You must not be listening again Torrie. A child of light cannot be killed but has to destroy themselves willingly when there is another to take their place."

"Thanks for the fucking history lesson Frankie, but it all falls under the category of not my fucking problem now. There's always more than one way to skin a cat, figure it out. You all know my brother isn't someone to fuck with. Oh and he gets real impatient real quick." Torrie said as she walked away laughing as a huge wave knocked her over. Everyone started laughing as Torrie pulled seaweed from her hair.

"Who's the sea hag now!" Kaitlyn called out. Torrie stood as a gust of wind knocked her back.

"Fine! You win for now!" Torrie called out before rising and walking away. Everyone kept laughing.

"Hey Torrie!" I called out as I went running toward her.

"Belinda what are you doing?" Daniel called out. I ignored him and caught up to Torrie and grabbed her arm. She turned and pulled free and raised her hand.

"Calm yourself girl, I'm not about that. I need a straight shooter here cause if I hear one more fucking riddle I'm gonna lose it."

"So you don't know the history of the children of this earth that keep the balance?"

"I don't know shit. It's been a crazy couple of weeks and it seems everyone knows more than I do at this time so throw me a bone here."

"I won't say much now because I can't and I won't but you and Eraina are close and you know enough that Mortakie and her have not conceived a child yet just as Ariana did not and as much as my brother would love to kill Eraina for it, he can't."

"Why?"

"Darkness cannot penetrate the light but only live in its absent shadow. Plainly put, get Eraina to end her life to save Selene. If this doesn't happen by the next full moon which happens to fall on the spring solstice which is the day of rebirth, Selene will die and another will be born and the cycle will continue. I doubt Eraina would want to know that she has carried centuries of deaths upon her shoulders. Surely and hopefully the guilt will kill her."

"No I meant why can't your brother kill Eraina? He could go in her subconscious like he does with everyone else. It's fucking annoying to be honest with you."

"God and Satan have set certain rules that have to be followed without question and no explanation. All we can do is speculate and hypothesize their reasoning for it." Torrie said rolling her eyes as if she gave this speech a thousand times. I started to think that most of the crap told me is nothing but text book knowledge and that's it.

"Bullshit, all of it."

"You wanted truth Belinda. Make sure next time you can handle it." Torrie said before walking away. I watched her disappear into the distance and stood there numb for quite some time.

Eraina had to die so Selene could live. It would be easier to destroy the moon with a slingshot and a prayer. I would be torn to shreds if I even suggested the idea. A powerful child of light killed by a guilt trip I administer. What a joke. There had to be another way.

'The burden doesn't have to fall on your shoulders.' I turned to see Alfie standing next to me. He was looking straight ahead, smiling.

'How...'

'We already touched so the connection is always there and I can speak to you whenever I want.'

'That's kind of creepy having you in my thoughts all the time Alfie.'

'I'm not like that. I won't invade your privacy at all. Don't worry no one can hear unless I want them to.'

'Good. I need to go back to New York now and try to find them. I just don't know how to reach anyone.'

'They cloak themselves pretty well but I can assure you they are not in New York.'

'Where then?'

Alfie turned me to him and smiled before kissing my forehead and running back into the ocean to catch another wave. I turned and watched him ride the tide out on his stomach paddling like there was a board there but there wasn't. I watched him for a moment before looking down at the piece of paper in my hand.

'England.' I thought to myself.

'Good luck Belinda. I will be waiting if you need me.'

'Thanks Alfie.'

"You alright Belinda?"

"I guess Daniel." I said and turned to him. "I have to go now but I'll be back soon."

"Do you want some company?"

"I would love it but at the risk of sounding like everyone else around here, this is something I have to do on my own."

Daniel smiled and took my hand and kissed it. I smiled and looked into his eyes, they turned yellow and his fangs came out. I backed away but he grabbed my arm and twisted it behind my back.

"What the fuck Daniel!"

"It's the only way I'll know you are safe." He said before biting my neck and tasting my blood. I felt the rush of pain and I started to transform but he put his wrist over my mouth and I bit down. His blood poured into my mouth and I drank it. He pulled away and pushed me to the ground. I growled before pouncing on him, knocking him to the ground. I straddled him and pinned his arms down.

"What did you just do?" I asked trying to keep calm. I could feel his blood racing through me and parts of me were starting to change.

"Our blood is mixed, you are my mate now and we are linked forever." He smiled.

"What?"

"This is how werewolves court each other." Daniel explained.

"No you buy a girl dinner first, maybe even a movie or something!" I growled digging my claws into his arm. He smiled before putting me on my back and straddling me.

"I'm an alpha male and I choose my mate and take her. Sorry I had no time for courting but I couldn't lose you." Daniel said his eyes showing a bit of sympathy.

"That's sweet." I said before kneeing him in the groin and running as fast as I could back to my hotel and packing my bag.

"On your trip already?" I turned to see Sebastian standing right behind me.

"Don't you people ever give up!"

"My sister speaks the truth and you know this."

"All I know is you are all twisted fucks and I'm outta here." I said rushing past him. Sebastian grabbed my arm and let go quickly. I looked and his hand was on fire. He shook it off and looked at me.

"Clever boy marked you." He said before disappearing. I hauled ass out of the hotel and left for the airport. On the flight over I kept playing everything over in my head. I lost Devilynn and Rick but gained Selene, the child of light number 855 or so and lost her. I got caught up in a crazy medley of supernatural beings and now I'm on a potential suicide mission to accomplish God knows what. I wished Devilynn was here to help me.

A journey into the abyss.

I took the first flight I could get to England and looked around. How was I going to find elders who don't want to be found? I adjusted the scarf I put around my neck to hide the bite from prying eyes as my thoughts flashed back to last night. I'm not sure what Daniel meant or Sebastian for that matter so I headed to an Internet cafe to have some coffee and do some research.

Sadly there wasn't much on werewolf courting and being marked. The best I could gather is there's supposed to be a special ceremony between wolves that seal the mating ritual but that's only between wolves, purebred werewolves not dead mutated vampires, so hopefully there is a way out of this.

An ad popped up on the computer for a London nightclub. I clicked it away and started typing Mortakie's name to see what popped up and again the ad appeared. I clicked it away but it kept appearing. I stopped clicking and read the flyer. It was a rave at a place called The Blood Bank. I looked around before staring at my watch, 7pm. I asked the barista what time they closed, 11pm, good gave me a place to stay till the club opened.

I continued on my relentless search to see if I could find anything about Mortakie, Eraina and Helena, but there was no historical records at all.

"Hello Belinda."

"I looked up to see Devilynn sitting across from me. She was dressed in black from head to toe. It took everything in me not to jump up and hug her but then I remembered her threat from before and decided to play it cool.

"You're really embracing this dark child thing I see." I said smiling. Devilynn gave me a smirk before leaning in.

"It's easier than it looks except when it comes to those I care about."

"Oh my God, Rick?"

"Made a mess of himself but got what he wanted and has joined evil to be at my side." She said nonchalantly staring at her nails before making a face.

"I thought you loved him?"

"I did. You see I learned we all have a destiny that is not to be changed and when we alter it, it in turn alters us and we see no longer the person we are. Rick is not as you remember and you wouldn't even recognize him if you saw him."

"You look the same, well your eyes are greener and your hair is redder but other than that."

"I'm on my destined path and it seems so are you."

"I should've known that the daughter of Satan would know what I'm up to, and just how dangerously impossible it is."

"It's the way of the world. Well our world anyway."

"So why are you here? To destroy me, help or deliver a warning of epic proportions?"

"No. I've been watching you and seeing everything that happened. I just wanted to tell you to trust your gut no matter what happens. Let that guide you because there will be more questions than answers if you look for them. Besides we all hate riddles."

"Yes we do. I wish things could be different."

"Me too Belinda, me too."

"Well it's good to see you, even if it is for a moment."

"Yes it is. I got you a gift." Devilynn said as she placed a pack of cigarettes on the table and slid them over.

"Cloves? I love these." I said grabbing the pack. Devilynn put her hand over mine and I looked into her eyes. I could see the pain in them and knew that her humanity wasn't completely gone and at least for a moment I had my friend with me. I smiled and she shed a tear before rising and walking away.

I sat there and decided to do research on vampires, werewolves and witches. It was all the same about vampires and blood and mind control and shape shifting and garlic and crosses. There were some tidbits about modern day vampires that feed off people's emotions and those that drink blood but they weren't my vampires.

Werewolves were another story. They change on the full moon only and can be killed by silver bullets and the only way one becomes a werewolf is to be bitten by one but there has been no proof of any werewolf attack since the 1700s.

Witches on the other hand could've gone on for days with everything that popped up so I decided to narrow my search to elementals.

It turns out the four main players are the guardians of earth, wind , fire and water. All elements together can bring peace and everlasting harmony but there is chaos in serenity and balance must be kept, therefore elements not only enhance one another but can cancel each other out, making complete harmony a myth. Water can quench fire, while wind gives it life and helps it spread and water can saturate the earth to help it grow but can also drown or choke the life out of earth.

These four chaotic forces keep the balance and harmony of life by destroying and rebuilding as needed. These powers once had a sentient form but it was fed into the earth to give it life millions of years ago. The elements on their own became erratic and unstable and so the guardians were created. The guardians are the chosen ones who harness the power of the elements until the time comes that they pass it along to another. These guardians are forbidden to use their powers for selfish gain and will result in loss of that power and one's life.

It was all very intriguing but in the same breath it seemed harsh and a bit extreme but that is the responsibility you have with such power I guess. So after everything I read I came to the conclusion that Frankie is the water guardian and her brother Cody is the wind guardian. Torrie is earth and her brother is Sebastian and that must make him fire. It doesn't explain his other powers or his interest in Ariana. It seemed possible that he was her apprentice or her son but she never had children so that can't be right. She feasted on power, so I couldn't imagine Ariana sharing power with anyone unless she knew her time was near. I shook the thought away as the ad popped up on my screen again. I looked up at the clock and saw it we 1030pm. I gathered my stuff and headed over to the blood bank. The place was hard to find being that the entrance was down a back alley. They weren't opened yet so I lit a clove and took a drag. I closed my eyes and let the smoke slowly trail out if my mouth, letting my tongue wrap around the sweet taste of cinnamon and spice.

"Do you have an extra smoke lovie?" I opened my eyes to see Rosella standing in front of me smiling. I almost jumped out of my skin when Miranda appeared behind me. I looked at both of them and their eyes told me to be silent for now. I handed rosella a smoke and lit it for her. She took a drag and handed it to her sister.

"Thanks lovie. You new to the city?"

"Yes I'm doing research on creatures that go bump in the night for a novel I'm writing."

"Well you've come to the right place. See you inside." Rosella said as she sauntered into the club. Miranda took my face into her hands and kissed me gently on the lips before heading in. I wasn't too sure why the twins were acting so odd but I had to assume there were eyes everywhere and I had to remain as anonymous as possible. I smiled and shook my head and continued to smoke. People were starting to head in and the place was getting pretty crowded.

I entered the club and looked around. People were undulating in tune with the music as smoke filled the floor. I closed my eyes and took the scent of incense in. Voices floated through my mind, random thoughts invading my own.

'I know Mortakie comes here. I've been watching those twins for some time now.' A female said.

'I hope you're right Silver. If Alfie knew.'

'Shut up! There are freaks out there that can read minds too you know.'

I opened my eyes and looked around. The music changed to a drum and bass dance groove. The lights started to flicker and out the glow sticks came. The noise was very deafening so I stepped off to the side and concentrated on the voices. It took a moment but I found them again.

'We can read minds Silver, Alfie said.'

'You don't have a mind right now! Just stop thinking! Geez I'm trying to concentrate.'

'I like this song. Glad I wore my reflective jumpsuit. It looks awesome under the black light and strobes.'

'Paint a target on us why don't you.'

'You're always so uptight Silver. It's a real drag.'

'Well when I have an idiot like you for a brother.'

I opened my eyes and scanned the club. There were so many people it was hard to pick apart vampires, werewolves, humans and now throwing witches into the mix was going to make this impossible. I saw the guy in the reflective jumpsuit and zeroed in but the two girls next to me were yapping so loud I couldn't concentrate. I had to get close to make sure so I grabbed the first guy I could find and headed down. We started dancing and I turned to keep my back to him and my focus on the siblings.

'You always put me down. I never complain about your stupid missions. All to get in Alfie's good graces.'

'I told you to stop thinking! Something feels wrong!'

'Paranoid Silver. That would be a better name for you, Silver doesn't work, it's...Wait..'

'Don't say it Connor.'

'Look who's using names now.'

'Stop thinking!'

I looked at the brother and saw his lips move.

"The marked one." He mouthed. Before they could look around I turned and tore through the crowd and hid myself in a corner. A hand grabbed my wrist and yanked me through a wall. I whirled around and came face to face with Helena. She put her finger over my lips and shook her head. I emptied my mind and followed her thinking about a tv show I watched when I was a kid. If anyone was listening it would get caught in the useless thoughts and chatter of other people.

She took me into a room and there sat Mortakie, Eraina and both sets of twins. I smiled and Mortakie raised his hand. He pushed a letter across the table. I looked down.

"You have been marked. I know everything." The letter read.

I looked up at Mortakie and then to Eraina. She smiled.

"You can't be ok with this." I blurted out. They all glared at me but I couldn't stop myself. "Eraina you would have to die for Selene to survive and become the new child of light or Sebastian is going to kill her! Well he can't or won't, whichever, I can't believe you're alright with this Mortakie but I'm not gonna be the one to kill you Eraina. I just can't!" I yelled letting out all the frustration that was boiling up inside me. They all stared at me wide eyed. I looked at each of them and if there was color to drain from their faces it would have.

"I take it that you don't know everything. Great. I didn't want it to go down like this. I'm sorry. I." My voice trailed off as tears started to form. The room grew hot and a wall of flames shot up to our left. Athena stepped out of the flames. She looked at all of us and then focused her attention on me.

"We need to speak, privately." Athena said motioning toward the flames. Mortakie stood up. Athena raised her hand.

"I have no words for you right now brother. It is best if you stay away. The road ahead is a treacherous one. Just because we are immortal does not mean we are beyond death. Prepare for it at all costs." Athena said as she turned and walked into the flames. I rose to follow her when Helena grabbed my arm.

"There is no truth there, only lies." Helena warned with fear in her ice blue eyes. I nodded and took a deep breath before walking through. I came through the other side and looked around. We were standing in a long black corridor.

"Follow me Belinda, we need to talk." Athena said as she started walking.

"You mean me and you or me, you, Devilynn, possibly Satan and the whole demonic family."

"You are wise."

"Not wise enough. I'm still confused about a bunch of things."

"As are we but the answers are not for us at this moment, nor will they ever be I'm afraid. There are things much larger than us and like humans we have no choice but to accept the roles that are given to us by our makers."

"Are you talking about God?"

"I'm talking about the makers and yes he is one." Athena answered, her voice echoing in the dark corridor. From behind she looked just like Devilynn, with her long wavy crimson hair. They had similar features but the green eyes and red hair were the most dominant.

"I thought there could only be one." I said noticing the echo of my own footsteps. I looked ahead and the corridor seemed to stretch on for miles with no end, it made me think back to my time in the abyss when I was shot and panic started to set in. Could this all be a trap?

"How could one make so many different species with different features and ways of being and traditions, etc. Humanity is way too vast to be thought up by just one entity and then you add in nature and the animals. It seems illogical that one entity could make everything. We would all be clones."

"I guess. I mean I thought hell was all fire and brimstone with demons flying around and torturing people. You know, like this long hallway should be covered in tortured bodies drenched in blood and feces crying out in pain and begging for redemption for their sins. "

"I figured this would be easier for you, not everyone who descends into hell is capable of handling the decimation they see. This is much more humane, I guess you could say."

"If you say so."

"I do. There are some things that one should never have to bear witness to." Athena stopped and turned to me.

"Come on Athena, I think with everything I've seen..." I didn't get to finish my sentence before the dark cool walls of the hallway evaporated and showed me exactly what I envisioned Hell to be.

There were bodies twisted together in agony and reaching out for me. Each movement made their bones crack and their skin tear. Buzzards and vultures flew by me and picked at the loose pieces of skin before flying away. A crow landed on a woman's burnt scalp and started to peck at her exposed brain. I turned away in disgust, their cries of pain and agony made my skin crawl.

On a platform across from me was a female demon with an apron on and she was feeding a grown man tied to a chair with a bib and bonnet on. I squinted and saw that she was feeding him a bowl of human shit. Next to her feet was another man tied to the floor and he was squatting over bowls and shitting in them. The smell was foul and putrid. I covered my mouth trying not to throw up.

The platform next to that one had a woman tied to a slab of rock and she was being flogged with a whip made of wasps. Every time the whip struck her, parts of her would swell up. Blisters and boils would break as puss and blood would run over her body. The demon laughed and threw salt on her wounds making the woman screech like an animal. My stomach continued to turn as I tried to look for a safe spot.

"See i told you it was not a sight for your eyes to behold. Do you still wish to see?"

I turned back to Athena.

"What horrible things could they have done to deserve such treatment? What happened to forgiveness and redemption? Is that all bull shit?"

"I'm afraid that is what the man was feasting on." A deep voice boomed. I looked up and ahead of me sitting on a throne of human bones was Satan himself. "You see foolish child, the imagination is a very powerful thing and can make us all fools or geniuses." I watched transfixed as his throne changed from a jumble of different bones into human body parts covered in flesh and blood. Some had bleeding eyes and broken fingers reached out and scratched at Satan. A girl's head stretched out to kiss Satan's cheek before returning to the rest of the jumbled mass of flesh.

"These people are not here because of what they have done in life, no, these people are here because they wish to be here. It's in their deepest thoughts and desires."

"Lies!"

"Far from it child. I have men of great power and members of the clergy here enjoying the perversions they could not have in life. Think about it, Heaven is what you make of it. So why can't Hell be the same? There is no difference. You just refuse to believe that people could be so vile and perverted as do many and that is their downfall. You should accept people for what they are inside and out and most importantly accept yourself. Trust me it would make it easier for you in the long run child."

"That's great and all and I will take all this into serious consideration, I mean it's not like I can ignore all that I've seen or am seeing right now. Why am I here again?"

"You've been marked by royalty." Kaitlyn said as she stepped forward. My eyes widened. "Don't be too surprised Belinda and please keep this between us for now."

"I guess but if you try anything."

"Relax Belinda, I'm the least of your worries. Daniel marked you and claimed you as his mate. For werewolves it's a sore subject. Your bloodline dared to mingle with a human and tainted the purity of the werewolves which is why your pack was hunted down and killed, with the exception of you of course."

"Wait I thought werewolves were vampires that were murdered. You know a freak mutation."

"As Satan and Athena have been trying to tell you, not everything is as it seems. There are many different species of vampires, werewolves and witches, from self made, to mutated to pure bred, each different in strengths and weakness."

"No Daniel said he was a vampire that was murdered and turned into a werewolf like me."

"All lies Belinda. The sad truth is we all lie to make things better, it's just easier. It's not intentional either it's who we are." Kaitlyn said smiling.

"Great, well he isn't the first person to lie to me and surely he won't be the last. Let's see what else...I have a tainted bloodline, well i'm the last of that bloodline, so I should give a rat's ass because?"

"Your family disgraced werewolves and they are not a forgiving lot. Daniel choosing you as his mate puts you off limits. You can't be killed by anyone or they run the risk of incurring the wrath of Daniel's family. Why do you think he moves among the different packs without being torn to shreds? His pack was the first of their kind. They are as pure as they come." Athena answered.

"Again, what does that have to do with anything?"

"Plenty child. You can't be harmed which makes you invincible and quite useful." Satan said smiling.

"Why the fuck would I help you? I'm invincible right?" I said laughing.

"Not to me you aren't!" Satan roared. "I could kill you right now! Toy with me child and I will crush you to dust and grind your ashes till there is nothing left. You will not exist because there will be no mind for you to create any kind of reality or fantasy whatsoever!"

"Father. You must keep calm. Remember your anger fuels the fires of hell which causes volcanoes to erupt and you know how pissy Mother can get about it." Devilynn said as she stepped out of the shadows and stood by Satan's left. I smiled at Devilynn and she winked at me.

"Kids." Satan said rolling his eyes and I couldn't help but laugh.

"What father says is true Belinda. I don't know everything that is going to happen, no one here does. We are just characters in a play and we just have to take our cues and say our lines until the curtain falls."

"I get it Devilynn, I do, its just, killing Eraina, I can't do it."

"Eraina will die Belinda. It's going to happen, to all of us." Devilynn said.

"It's just too perfect. You kill Eraina and not even the great Mortakie can hurt you. I've been waiting for my revenge and now it's here!" One of the heads on Satan's throne said as she stuck her head out and winked at me.

"Enough Kasandra. Centuries of your mouth." Satan trailed off before snapping his fingers and transforming his throne back into bones.

"Well I'm sure they're long gone by now. I spilled the beans and Eraina knows everything. So there ain't no way I'm going to get near her now. Sorry." I said smiling.

"You've already killed her Belinda. Eraina never wanted to live she just needed a reason to die." Athena said erecting a wall of flames in front of me. I turned to Athena.

"I can't believe someone as pure as Eraina would want to die. A child of light. I just. None of this makes sense."

"There is an unmarked grave beyond this wall of fire. Dig until you find a small chest, break the lock and all the answers will be inside." Athena whispered in my ear as she pulled me close and kissed my forehead before pushing me through the flames.

The Past Becomes, The Present

I looked around and I was indeed in an old cemetery standing in front of an unmarked grave. It seemed like the cemetery was abandoned decades ago, there were weeds and ivy growing over most of the tombstones that were left standing. Moseliums were cracked and crumbling.

"Of course Mortakie would bury the greatest love story never told in my grave so I could never rest."

I looked to my left and there stood a girl in a black dress and matching cloak. Her long black hair hid her face.

"I miss life. It was taken from me too many times by Mortakie. He has damned many souls and shows no remorse for it. I'm surprised that Eraina's light still shines at all."

"You're the one from Satan's chair." The girl turned to me and most of her face was burnt. I jumped back and growled.

"The name is Kasandra, or at least what is left of me. Think long and hard before you do this. Some truths should never see the light of day." Kasandra said looking up at the moon.

"For once I agree with you wench." Mortakie said as he stepped from the shadows. My eyes widened as Mortakie pointed a finger at me, not taking his eyes off of Kasandra. "I shall deal with you in a moment Belinda."

Mortakie's words chilled me to the bone. I had an elder vampire pissed at me for something I didn't do, I contemplated running but how far would I get before he tore me to shreds?

"Admiring your handiwork?" Kasandra asked as she caressed her face. "Not how I planned to see my first sunrise since becoming a vampire centuries ago. I see time has been gracious to you."

"I swear the devil kept you alive to torment me Kasandra. Now this. Why lead her here."

"Oh I wish I could take credit for bringing this poor child here but that was your darling sister. However I do get to relish in that miserable look on your face."

"Speaking of faces, yours is as enchanting as ever."

"There isn't much of me left Mortakie! You saw to that."

"Yet here you are annoying me as usual."

"The truth will be known, the great Mortakie stripped down for the world to see. People will laugh and that will be music to my ears."

"Yes and they will know about you and what a conniving bitch you were." Mortakie said smiling.

"It's time for retribution Mortakie! You've outrun pain and suffering for far too long! Now your world will end and I will see it done!" Kasandra said laughing before turning into mist and disappearing. Mortakie turned to me and bared his fangs. His eyes turned red as he growled.

"I do not care if you are marked and a horde of werewolves come for me. I have fought demons and angels to keep Eraina safe. I have travelled to hell and back and defied every order to keep her at my side. So give up now and spare yourself any pain because I will stop at nothing to have my love by my side for all eternity."

"Listen Mortakie I don't want to hurt Eraina either. Selene will die if I don't."

"As many others have! Some by my own hand. As I said I would do anything to keep her safe. Eraina is mine and always will be." Mortakie heaved.

"What? I thought you loved Eraina, why would you do this to her?" I practically sobbed feeling a knot in my stomach tighten so hard I could wretch.

"I do love her. Things are not as they seem. For dark there is light, the good and bad of everything. My love for Eraina is not the tale of fairy tales but something much darker. If she ever truly knew the sins I've committed in her name she would never look upon me again. That is a fate much worse than Satan and Hell itself. I will not have it!"

"It doesn't matter anymore, I blurted everything out. Eraina knows and the decision is hers now not yours."

"She will forget. I am her maker. It's the power I have over her. Eraina will not remember anything you said because she won't remember you!" Mortakie growled his eyes getting redder.

"This has gone on long enough Mortakie!" Athena's voice echoed through the night.

"Stay back Athena as you've done for centuries! I will not yield." Mortakie said his eyes still locked on me. What was staring at me wasn't human. I felt an icy chill crawl up my back.

"Step down now brother or face annihilation!" Athena warned. I looked around and couldn't find her.

"Empty threats!" Mortakie yelled as he began to transform into this huge demon with red skin and big black wings. My eyes widened.

"Isn't this what you wanted Belinda! The truth! Dark could never be with light no matter how hard I tried to be good, the fates would not have it! So I say to hell with them!" Mortakie growled.

"As you said to hell with me brother!" Athena roared as she stepped out of the wall of flames that erupted. Athena was in her full demon form. I looked up at her massive form and stood transfixed by her beauty. She had hoofed feet with black fur going up to her calves. Her skin was red with black tribal lines going up her arms, circling around her breasts and diving down to her crotch. Even in my full wolf form she was two feet taller and more muscular. Mortakie on the other hand was double Athena's size in mass with black hoofed feet and red skin. His horns were black and pointed straight up, making him slightly taller than Athena, who horns were slightly shorter.

"Yes Athena! To hell with all! Even my whore of a sister!" Mortakie growled. As he launched himself at me. I tried to move out of the way, thankfully Athena flew at Mortakie and knocked him out of the way. The two growled and wrestled on the ground before another demon yanked Athena off and threw her against a Mausoleum, cracking the stone structure before she hit the ground like a ton of bricks.

Someone yanked me by my hair tossing me off balance. I spun around and growled clawing at whatever was there. It was another demon. It grabbed me by my throat and lifted me off the ground. I struggled to free myself but the grip got tighter.

"Don't struggle Belinda, it's easier if you just give in." It was Thomas' voice in my head. I tried to speak but no words or thoughts came to mind.

Just as the lights starts to dim another large black demon with red horns and eyes appeared behind the demon and broke its neck. I fell to the ground gasping for air and looked up at the demon. Its skin was black as coal and red tribal lines ran around its entire body. If it wasn't for the long red hair covering her breasts I never would have known who the demon was.

"Devilynn?" I choked. It smiled and winked at me.

"Thomas!" The other demon shrieked before lunging at Devilynn. The two clashed trading blows. Sarah tried to inflict pain with every claw and scratch but Devilynn was massive and the little demon didn't stand a chance, it was like watching a mouse fight with a cat. I looked over at Athena and saw Mortakie standing over her. He broke a piece of a tree branch off and raised it over his head.

"Mortakie!" Helena called out. Mortakie stopped and turned.

"Mother!" Mortakie growled. Helena disappeared and reappeared in front of Athena. She seemed so small and fragile standing there with her arms out. Helena started to shift back and forth slightly as if she was mentally rocking her son to calm him.

"I will not have this Mortakie, you are both my children and I love you dearly but I will not stand by and watch you destroy each other." Helena said.

"It has to be done mother. All that we've done together." Mortakie pleaded as he lowered the branch slightly.

"Yes my son and it has gone on long enough. Our time here is done. We are holding on to ashes that are blowing through our grasp. Please my son." Helena pleaded as a tear rolled down her cheek. Mortakie reached out with his long black nail and gently wiped it away. He kissed her forehead before driving the wooden branch through her heart. Helena screeched out in pain and fell into her son's demonic arms.

"Forgive me mother." Mortakie said as he stroked his mother's hair. Helena looked up at her son and touched his cheek before letting her hand fall limp. Mortakie laid his mother down and rose. He grabbed Athena by her arms and pulled her up. He turned toward the tree holding Athena's back to the jagged shard that stuck out.

Transforming into a she wolf I ran and jumped on Mortakie wrapping my arms around his neck. As a she-wolf I know I'm strong but I'm not sure I'm strong enough to take on a demonic vampire. Athena was in trouble and I had to take that chance. Mortakie dropped Athena and reached back for me. I kicked and clawed and bit at him. He growled and flew up taking me with him. The air rushed through my fur and a moment of panic set in.

"I wonder if a wolf could survive a fall to earth from this height? Or I could fly higher and faster until you pass out and suffocate from lack of oxygen."

"You killed your own mother." I choked.

"For love, Belinda, for love." Mortakie said as he a tear rolled down his cheek. In that moment I felt bad for Mortakie and almost couldn't blame him but then I thought about Selene. It was obvious he would stop at nothing and the only recourse was to destroy him. I took hold of Mortakie's wing and pulled with all my might. He spun out of control screeching in pain but I didn't care. I continued to pull, I was going to rip his wing off, I had to end this madness.

He struggled and did barrel rolls trying to shake me off him. I held on tight and continued to pull. He swooped down and I lost my balance falling back I turned and grabbed him around the neck. I sank my teeth in and tore at his throat. It was like chewing on leather and I felt like a dog with a chew toy instead of a she wolf with a mouth full of a demonic vampire. I felt some blood spill into my mouth and continued to bite harder. Mortakie stopped flapping his wings and we started to fall out of the sky.

'Release me Belinda and I will set you on the ground safely or we will both hit the earth and we will both die together!' I heard Mortakie's voice in my head.

'What's gonna stop you from killing me once we land?' I thought.

'You have my word Belinda.'

'Somehow that's not a comforting thought.' I knew Mortakie could easily kill me the minute we hit the ground or a moment before. I had to hold on.

'You also don't have a choice at this point Belinda.'

'What about Eraina?' I thought attempting to plead to his humanity, if there was any left.

'She will live. She will never know what happened.'

'But you won't be with her?' I thought hoping to put some sense into his head.

'Yes but she will live!'

I guess all Mortakie really cared about was Eraina. Just her living was enough even if it meant him dying and being without her. Is that real love or is it being selfish? Hiding the truth from her and destroying other lives just so she could go on living, it seemed more for him than her. I guess even the most selfless of deeds have a selfish gain or intent to them. It all made sense. I bit down even harder. If we had to die, I know someone would tell Eraina the truth. I could only hope it happened before Selene died.

The ground came closer and I closed my eyes and counted to ten before leaping off Mortakie and landing safely on the ground. I turned to see Mortakie hit the pavement hard and lie motionless. I listened for a heartbeat and heard none. I looked over and saw Athena cradling her mother and weeping in her demon form. Devilynn was fighting both Thomas and Sarah.

I jumped up and ran over to Sarah and pulled her away. She turned and started to claw at me but I moved back setting her off balance and knocking her to the floor. I straddled her and pulled a tree branch from the ground and drove it into her left shoulder. I jumped up and grabbed another branch off the tree above me and drove it into her other shoulder. She was pinned down for the moment. i jumped back up to the tree and grabbed two more branches. Devilynn body slammed Thomas on the ground and I drove a branch through each arm pinning him down. Devilynn looked at me and she was covered in blood, dirt and leaves. Her massive frame heaved with each breath she took.

"You look like hell." I said smiling.

"You don't look so shabby yourself Belinda." Devilynn said laughing. She looked over at Athena. It was odd seeing a demon weeping, her big black wings flapping slightly behind her would come forward to cradle Helena offering some kind of protection from anything else that could harm her.

"That is the past right there Belinda. That anger, sorrow and regret has been festering for centuries. The way they lived was no way to live at all. We can't follow in their footsteps, balance must be restored and maintained for those that come after us, to stray from that is selfish and robs anyone a chance from living"

"Mortakie didn't seem to think so. To him it was all worth it." I said shaking my head.

"You know that was a stupid thing you did right?" Devilynn said pulling leaves from her hair.

"What?" I asked looking at Devilynn, she had returned to her human form.

"Drinking his blood. You know you're part demon now."

"Does that mean I can have my neck broken and still come back?"

"Belinda, we are immortal, momentary deaths don't kill us, they just delay us. Permanent death, well only I can provide that." Devilynn said grinning.

"Get out of here." I said nudging Devilynn. She laughed and rubbed her arm. I looked around and saw that everyone had returned to their human form except Athena and me. I stayed as a wolf just in case.

"Master! Speak to us!" Sarah cried out as she struggled to free herself from the branches that impaled her.

"Please Master!" Thomas begged. "Sister?"

"I'm fine Thomas but Mortakie."

No sound or movement came from Mortakie and the twins began to weep. It broke my heart to see people in pain, even if they were immortal monsters.

"Your dear master just murdered his mother. He has no loyalty or love for any of you. How do you feel about that?" Devilynn asked. The twins said nothing as they continued to weep.

Athena laid her mother down on the ground and stood up. She looked up at the sky and let out a shriek that sent animals scurrying for cover and birds from their nests in the trees. She took the branch from Helena's heart and walked over to Mortakie. She raised it over her head.

"Wake up brother! I want to look into your eyes and watch death claim you once and for all!" Athena growled as she kicked Mortakie. He rolled onto his back and looked up at Athena.

"Sister." He breathed. "Everything happens for a reason. You know that as well as I do. Eraina will live."

"Goodbye brother, I hope I won't see you in hell and I can only pray that Satan has a hole deep enough to keep you hidden from the world for all eternity." Athena said as she raised the branch higher.

"What is the meaning of this?" We all turned to see Eraina standing there with Rosella and Miranda.

"I told you to stay away Eraina." Mortakie breathed as he tried to move. Athena stepped on his chest and forced him back to the ground.

"I asked a question?" Eraina said as her eyes scanned across the cemetery looking for someone to offer any explanation. Her eyes settled on the body behind Athena.

"Helena!" Eraina screamed before running over to Helena and cradling her. Eraina ran her hand over Helena's blood soaked dress and pulled her hand away and stared at the blood in horror and disbelief. "No this can't be! Please wake Helena! You've been a mother to me all these centuries, please don't leave me." She sobbed.

"Poor Eraina. Always such a sad tale with you. At least you had her for centuries! I only had her for a few fleeting moments!" Athena screamed as she drove the branch through Mortakie's stomach shoving it deep in the ground pinning Mortakie to the earth.

"Death is too easy for you brother. I think you need to be alive and feel the pain you have caused us all." Athena hissed. She walked over to Eraina and yanked her up by her hair.

"Mother?"

"Stay out of this Devilynn, I know I can't destroy a child if light but I can sure as hell break you." Athena said before lifting Eraina and throwing her toward a tree. Eraina hit the tree and fell to the ground. She sat up holding her side. Devilynn turned into a demon and flew at her mother. Athena knocked her to the side.

"Know your place child!" Athena growled as she grabbed Eraina by her neck and started to squeeze. Eraina struggled in her grasp trying to get some air. Athena threw Eraina into a tombstone breaking it on impact.

"Do you know all that Mortakie has done to keep you alive?" Athena growled as she yanked Eraina up by her hair. She put her face next to Eraina's ear. "Did he tell you about all the children he killed, the souls he damned? Do you even care?" Athena finished as she slammed Eraina to the ground.

"Innocent lives cut short and ruined all for you!" Athena screeched as she took Eraina's head and smashed it continuously on the ground. Rosella and Miranda ran over to Mortakie and tried to pull the branch out.

"Free the twins. Save Eraina." He gasped. The twins nodded and turned toward me. There I was standing between them and the twins, alone. This was the part where I had to make a choice. Either let the twins free to help Eraina and run the risk of Selene dying along with my best friend and her mother or die trying to defend them.

Do I believe Eraina deserved what was happening to her? Absolutely not but what else could I do? Any action would result in some form of chaotic reaction that could destroy us all. On another note I could just let them all destroy each other. The past needed to die right? It's haunted the present for far too long. That seemed the easiest way out, to just run and never look back. I could outrun all of this for as long as it takes.

'You can't run forever Belinda. Your words to Devilynn back in New York.'

'Alfie? I thought you said.'

'Forgive me. I felt your pain and anguish. Daniel felt it too. He's on his way to get you, so whatever you plan to do, make it quick. Daniel is not the forgiving type.'

'Thanks Alfie.'

Miranda and Rosella teleported from Mortakie to behind me trying to set the twins free. I grabbed Miranda and Rosella by their hair and yanked them to the ground.

"Stay down ladies, don't make me stake you too." I warned.

"Belinda you can't." Miranda begged.

"The hell I can't!"

"Mortakie will be destroyed! We all will." Rosella said as a tear rolled down her cheek.

"It's out of our hands ladies." I said looking back at Athena as she continued to punish Eraina. I felt the twins move and turned back. Gerald and some of his friends had hold of the twins.

"Be cool chicas, you're too gorgeous to die but we will kill you if we have to." Gerald cautioned.

"You thought you'd be rid of me?" Daniel whispered in my ear. A chill ran up my spine. I said nothing and just turned my attention back to Athena and Eraina. This was the last thing I needed. I could only pray the rest of them weren't in tow. Last thing we need is four elemental witches duking it out and causing more havoc. Athena continued to beat Eraina. Devilynn managed to pull her mother away once before she was thrown halfway across the cemetery.

"So these are the most powerful immortals to walk the earth? Demonic vampires. Now what would happen if we fed off them? Would that make us demonic werewolves?" Daniel asked. The others laughed.

"Why taint the line sire, we are pure."

"True Damien. We are above them and all of this. Wouldn't you agree Belinda?"

I turned to Daniel and looked him dead in the eyes.

"I don't agree. I don't know who you think you are but this ain't the Daniel I."

"Silence!" He growled. "I won't hear anymore." I opened my mouth but no sound came out. I wanted to beat his face in but I couldn't move. Daniel smiled.

"You have a lot to learn Belinda, but you will know your place." He said breaking eye contact severing the connection. I looked to see Athena and Devilynn fighting as Eraina laid on the ground motionless.

"Mother! Stop this!" Devilynn growled.

"I just want him to see!" Athena said. "See your treachery and all it's caused everyone. See it Mortakie! Eraina suffers for it!" She screeched and turned her attention to Mortakie.

"Ok boys, it's now or never." Daniel said. They snapped the necks of the twins before transforming into large human wolves. I watched transfixed as their faces and bodies contorted in unison. I've never seen the transformation only felt it and it's the most mesmerizing thing to ever witness. The painful metamorphosis of each part of your body twisting and turning, your insides rearranging themselves to compensate. I would rather give birth to an entire nation each second then to go through a transformation. Thankfully it gets easier the more you do it. The wolf men howled before lunging toward Devilynn and Athena. I moved forward and Daniel grabbed me by my arm.

"Stay!" He growled. I didn't dare look in his eyes. He made me feel like I had no control over myself and that frightened me. I could only stand there and watch as Devilynn and Athena fought the wolf men. It was ten against two and they were losing horribly. I hated that I had no other choice but to stand by and watch all this unfold, powerless to do anything. I tried to empty my mind. This brought me back to my human form.

Eraina came to bloodied and bruised and looked at everything that was going on. Her face moved from the battle raging not to far from her, to Helena dead on the floor, Mortakie continuously calling out her name and the twins writhing in front of us and me standing by idle as the chaos ensued. Eraina rose.

"Stop this madness, all of you." She choked out as blood spit out of her mouth. Eraina looked down at the blood in her hand. She repeated again. "Stop this madness, all of you." Still the battle continued. I watched as a light started to surround Eraina and it grew brighter each time she repeated herself, almost as if it were a chant.

"I said stop this madness! All of you!" She screeched as large white wings burst forth from behind her back sending a gust of wind that knocked everyone down. They all stopped fighting and looked at Eraina. She flapped her wings and levitated off the ground. Her eyes were white and her skin was marble, she was the picture of heaven.

"Why do you interfere in matters that don't concern you wolves?" Eraina asked. Her voice was deep and echoed through the night.

"For too long power has been unbalanced. We want order to be restored. The mixing of breeds must stop." One of the werewolves answered.

"You've had the same war cry for centuries now. Time to give it a rest Lynx clan." Torrie said as she stepped forward holding Selene by her hair. She struggled and Torrie looked up at the tree, the branches shot out and wrapped around Selene before yanking her up.

"Belinda!" Selene cried when she looked over at me. Daniel tightened his grip on my arm and I let my body relax.

"You must be Eraina." Torrie said turning her attention to Eraina. "I see you finally came into your true powers. Great just in time to make a choice. Fly into the sun and end your life for that brat in the tree to live or stay here and let her die."

Eraina looked at Torrie and then at Selene. The whole world was silent and it was deafening. I wanted to say something, do something, every nerve was on edge.

"Easy girl." Daniel whispered sternly in my ear as he pulled me close. I continued to let the tension build as I balled up my fist and punched him in the groin making him double over before my knee went into his face breaking his nose. I transformed back into a wolf and quickly snatched the branches out of the twins.

"You all want to kill each other? Now's your chance." I said. The twins transformed into demons and flew at Torrie. Athena lunged at Eraina and the two locked arms shoving each other back and forth.

"Mortakie!" I turned to see Miranda and rosella rise and go to his aid. I ran from them all and jumped into the tree. I yanked the branches off of Selene and scooped her up.

"Belinda."

"Yes honey, we have to get you out of here now." I said looking around.

"I've never seen an angel before." Selene said as she looked at Eraina. I turned back and looked at Eraina fighting with all her might against Athena.

"None of this would have happened if Mortakie had never laid eyes on you. Lives ruined for centuries all in your name and you sit idle, a victim in it all." Athena said. The wolves jumped at them and it became a sea of demons, wolves and vampires. It all became a blur.

I was yanked out of the tree and slammed to the ground. I looked up to see Daniel standing over me in his wolf form, his muscles were covered in fur and heaved with every breath he took. I've managed to piss off two very powerful men in one night, not good for my health.

"That's twice you've defied me Belinda." Daniel growled as he reached out for me.

"Leave her alone!" Selene cried as she jumped out of the tree onto Daniel's back. She pulled his hair and clawed at his eyes. Daniel howled before grabbing Selene by her hair and tossing her. I watched Selene as she was about to hit a Mausoleum, I jumped up with such force and speed that I caught Selene and took the brunt of the impact. I felt my spine crack and a few ribs break as I hit the ground. Selene turned to me.

"Belinda! You're hurt!"

"Selene listen to me I need you to run. I can't protect you right now please honey." Selene looked at me with tears in her eyes. I looked up and Daniel was already standing over her.

"Please don't." I begged. Daniel reached out for Selene and was thrown back to the ground. A woman with long brown hair and glowing white skin stepped forward. Her ivory wings flapped gently behind her back sending the fabric of her white gown flowing around her. She looked at the madness before her and her grey eyes clouded over slightly. She raised her arms and the wind started to pick up and everyone stopped and turned to look at her. Most shielded their eyes from her light as some squinted to look at her.

"You need not know me but you should fear me." She warned. No one moved or said a word, no one dared. Eraina stepped away from the chaos and walked over and picked up Helena.

"Don't you dare take her!" Athena warned as she stepped forward. Eraina turned to Athena with Helena in her arms.

"You are not beyond death demon!" The angel's voice boomed. "I have been given the authority to restore balance in any way I see fit. Destroying all of you right now would suffice so do not mistake my kindness for weakness."

Athena stepped back and bowed her head. Eraina made her way over to the woman. The angel looked at Eraina with such sadness in her eyes then down at Helena. The angel put her hand on Helena's forehead and she slowly evaporated into light and shot up into the sky. The angel raised her hand and caressed Eraina's cheek wiping away a tear that fell. She took the hand if the angel and kissed it before turning to us.

Eraina looked at Selene and then at me. She knelt down next to Selene and took hold of her hand. Selene's eyes darted back and forth from the two angels. She had a mixed expression of awe and panic.

"It's alright. We can make Belinda better." Eraina said as she placed Selene's hand over my head. Eraina placed her hand on Selene's shoulder and the angel placed her hand on Eraina's shoulder.

"I don't know how."

"Believe Selene, believe you can make Belinda whole." The angel coaxed. I watched the light flow from the angel into Eraina then into Selene and then into me. I felt my bones begin to heal themselves. In moments I was back to normal and I could move. It would've taken about a week to regenerate from this kind of damage. I know werewolves heal faster than humans and slower than vampires. I guess it's the way we are all made.

"How?" Selene asked.

"There is not much time child. Please." The angel motioned us to her right. We rose and stood at her side. Eraina stood next to us and turned toward the angel.

"This ends now. Helena chose her side. Search your souls no matter how dark and find your place. The world has grown tired of the elders and this bickering. Make a choice lest one be made for you." The angel warned before turning to Eraina and nodded. Their wings closed over us and we were engulfed in a bright light. I felt us being lifted off the ground.

"What's happening? Eraina I'm so sorry I." I stammered searching for some words. I felt the need to explain everything, to apologize for everything, to make it alright.

"No apologies Belinda. Just enjoy the ride." Eraina said as she looked up. I followed her gaze and saw the dark sky filled with stars. I never saw so many stars, being a city girl and all, it was breathtaking and for a brief moment I forgot about everything that happened. Consequences cannot touch us here and I was able to finally relax.

A Child Of Light Is Born

We landed and their wings opened and we stepped out. I looked around and saw that we were on top of a giant cliff far away from the madness we were just in. The angel motioned us into a cave and we entered. She came in behind us and a stone rolled covering the entrance. We didn't need any light because there was so much light coming from the angel it lit up the entire cave. We all sat on whatever rock or stone seemed comfortable and just sat in the silence.

So much has happened and I'm not even sure where to begin. Every time I think I have an answer I have more questions. Demons, vampires, witches and werewolves, some pure others mingled, balance, purity. All just words that had multiple meanings but no meaning at all. I looked at Selene and her eyes were transfixed on the angel in front of her. The angel was looking at Eraina and Eraina was staring at me.

"Thank you for saving us." I stammered not sure what to say.

"You are quite welcome." The angel said and looked at Eraina. It seemed like the two of them had some sort of connection that none of us were allowed to understand. It's funny I've see Hell in its raw form but that doesn't scare me as much as being in the presence of this angel. I had no idea the intentions of this angel and I know them as super beings that could end your existence with just a thought. Eraina seemed calm and so did Selene so that set some of my worries aside for the moment.

"I know it's time. My work here is done." Eraina said before she turned to Selene. "I know you must be confused Selene but you are the next child of light and one day you will have to have a child of your own and they will become the next in line and so on." Selene looked at Eraina and then at the angel.

"I'm just a child. I don't have the strength." Selene said her eyes clouding over. For a child she was a brave girl and survived for a long time on her own before Rick and I found her. It finally dawned on me why she was special. Just like Devilynn was made to become the child of darkness, it was time for Selene to embrace the night.

"I thought the same thing Selene but we will be here to help you, all you have to do is ask." Eraina said offering some comfort. Selene sighed and looked to the angel once more.

"Are my mama and papa with you angel? They were good people. I miss them, they don't deserve the bad place." Selene said tears beginning to form in her eyes.

The angel looked at Selene and smiled before pulling a loose feather from her wing. She held it out in front of her. It started to move slightly and then it lifted up in to the air and started to swirl creating a vortex of light. The lights swirled creating a large doorway. It was breathtaking to look at and I became lost in it, it was nice to see some light in all this darkness. I looked over at Selene and saw her eyes widen as two figures emerged from the light.

"Mama! Papa!" She cried as she jumped into their outstretched arms. They held her tight and bathed her in kisses and sentiments.

"Oh my dearest, we have missed you." The mother said placing a kiss on her daughter's forehead.

"I missed you both every day. I was alone for so long until I met Rick and Belinda. That's her and she protects me." Selene said pointing at me. Everyone turned to me and I felt my face turn red, I never liked attention, besides I didn't protect her well enough since Sebastian got a hold of her.

"You cared for her when no one did. We thank you for that Belinda." The father said before turning back to his daughter. "Listen well munchkin, you have to be a big girl now and be strong. You are very special and will do great things. That's why bad people came after us but you must go on no matter what as you do now. You are pure my dear, our child of light."

"I can't be papa, I'm dead. I'm a vampire, pure evil." Selene said.

"We will fix that child." The angel said rising. Out of instinct I rose to protect Selene but the angel held up her hand.

"I mean her no harm Belinda." The angel said not takin her eyes off Selene. "Take my hand child if you wish to be the next child of light."

Selene looked at her parents and sadness filled her eyes.

"This is goodbye isn't it?" Selene whispered as a tear fell from her eye.

"For the moment but we will always be by your side." The mother coaxed. They exchanged a few more hugs and kisses before Selene was placed on the ground, she looked up at her parents as they rose into the light and disappeared. The feather floated down and landed in Selene's hand. She held it tight.

Selene looked at me and smiled before taking the angel's hand. Eraina stood and held out both her hands. The three clasped hands and raised their heads to the sky. I watched as the light from the angel flowed into Eraina and that light grew brighter and then flowed into Selene. It got so bright I had to shield my eyes. Then as quick as it started, it ended. I moved my hand away and blinked away the lights that danced in front of my eyes.

"Usually your powers develop naturally but sadly time and history requires us to move faster. What you are feeling right now Selene is an immense amount of power. You must learn to control it or it will destroy you." The angel warned. Selene nodded and looks down at her arms, they were glowing. She smiled.

"I will be here to help you if you need me but not as I am now." Eraina said. She looked at the angel and nodded.

"Protect her." The angel said to me before evaporating into a spectrum of light. Eraina looked at me and smiled. I stood and held her tight.

"I don't understand." I said as a tear rolled down my cheek.

"Neither do I Belinda." She said pulling away. "Neither do I."

"So what now then? I mean Selene is the child of light now so."

"I must end my life." Eraina said smiling.

"But what about Mortakie and the twins?"

"Mortakie never understood that this was never about him or us. I had to stay alive long enough to find Ariana and destroy her but I had to wait for another child of darkness to take her place. You see just like Mortakie, Ariana spent a lot of time destroying every child of evil that came to be. Centuries of playing the victim and keeping the biggest secret from everyone. I had no choice but to play coy and naïve." Eraina confessed sadly.

"Well I think you did a great job with that because everyone bought it. So what now?"

"I've played my part Belinda. It's time for me to take my rightful place up there as an angel. Take care." Eraina said as she moved the rock aside with the flick of her wrist. She turned back to us. "Come Selene. Let us watch the sunrise together."

"I can't. The sun is bad."

"Not anymore. The vampire in you is gone. Only the witch remains." Eraina said as she walked outside.

"Witch?" I asked confused.

Selene took hold of my hand. I looked down at her as she smiled up at me. There was a calmness in her face, a child-like innocence returned to her. In that moment I knew Selene would be alright and I would stay by her side as her guardian, her she wolf protector. We walked outside. Eraina was standing at the edge of the cliff overlooking the town. The breeze moved her dress and hair in slow dancing motions, twirling like a ballerina.

"I cannot recall the last time I saw the sun rise." Eraina said smiling as she looked out at the town. "I have seen the world as a human and as a vampire yet I've never seen the world as clearly as I do now. It's beautiful."

"I have so many questions." I said.

"The past is in the past. Let it die there, build a future." Eraina said as she turned to Selene and knelt down. "The sun will be up in a moment. Be brave Selene. I will be watching."

"Goodbye Eraina." Selene whispered as she leaned in and kissed Eraina's cheek. Eraina smiled and pulled away and rose. Selene backed up and took hold of my hand. Tears started to form in my eyes.

"This not your fault Belinda. This is my destiny. Thank you for releasing me." Eraina said smiling as the sun rose up in the horizon. I watched as it bathe over the town and slowly made its way to the cliff like a gentle wave rolling to shore. Eraina turned to face it. She smiled and held out her arms to embrace the light as it washed over her. She burst into flames as a horrible screech escaped her body. Selene flinched and grabbed my arm.

I watched as Eraina's body burned. Flesh and ash flicked off her and was pulled up into the sky by the wind. Her scream pierced my ears. I looked down at Selene, she was fine, the vampire in her gone. She stared straight ahead at Eraina. I looked back up when I heard the scream stop. Eraina's body was gone.

"The vampire is gone, she's an angel now. Eraina smiled and winked at me before she went up." Selene said when she saw my puzzled face.

"You saw her?"

"Yes the fire burned away the vampire and only a beautiful angel stood before shooting up into the sky."

I looked up at the sky hoping to catch a glimpse of Eraina in her pure angelic form but the sky was only filled with clouds. I took a moment to breath in peace before panic set in. Daylight will keep the vampires at bay for now but not the werewolves. Danielle's icy glare came back to me and I shivered trying to shake him off me. There was no reason for me to stay here seeking answers, I will just stop asking questions and keep Selene safe in the only way I know how.

"What do we do now Belinda?" Selene asked. I looked down at her and lifted her in my arms. I kissed her cheek.

"We run Selene. You and I are a pack and we are going to run."

"Where to?" A voice asked. I turned into a she wolf and tossed Selene on my back before turning to face the voice. There was no one there. I scanned the cliff and saw a pair of red eyes in the cave.

"Hold tight Selene." I growled as I sprinted into the cave and jumped on the set of red eyes. I was about to tear it to shreds when I saw the red hair and green eyes were smiling at me. I growled.

"Really Devilynn." I said as I got off of her and placed Selene on the ground. I turned back into my human form as Devilynn pulled herself off the ground laughing.

"Hey what's the good of being evil if you can't enjoy it?" Devilynn said as she winked at Selene. "Don't worry honey, we never fight each other you and I. We are the guardians of balance and are only called to arms against one another when that balance directly affects us."

"Good to know. I'd hate to have to tear you to shreds." I said smiling.

"You'll be a fantastic guardian." Devilynn said.

"So what brings you here?" I asked taking a seat on a rock. Devilynn sat down on the rock next to me and sighed.

"I'd figure you'd want to know what happened after you guys left. I hate stories that have holes in them." Devilynn said smiling. "Don't look so shocked I know you've been writing on my behalf and I'm flattered and honored."

"I know it's your passion so." I said as my voice trailed off.

"Is everyone dead?" Selene asked as she took a seat next to me and put her head on my lap. I played with her hair as Devilynn told us what happened.

"Athena became enraged that Eraina and Helena were taken from her and proceeded to take it out on Mortakie. She drove branches through him leaving him to bleed, stating she wanted the cemetery covered in his blood. She shed enough to almost cover the whole cemetery. Both sets of twins attempted to intervene when the werewolves jumped in just for sport. They clawed and bit at each other. The blonde witch watched for a little before she walked away. I stood there watching her and the tall werewolf guy that had a hold on you."

"Daniel." I said as I shuddered.

"Yeah he didn't look happy. He growled and all his minions came back to him and they left. Both sets of twins lay on the ground destroyed and near death. Mortakie didn't have an ounce of blood left in him. My mother stood there covered in blood, sweat and tears. She returned to her human form spat on her brother then opened a portal into hell and left. I was nice enough to bury the corpses. I couldn't help but wonder if I would see them in Hell and if they would be pissed at me. I doubt father would let them anywhere near our level of Hell, no he probably buried them pretty deep. I hope."

"I guess that's that then." I said looking down at Selene, she had fallen asleep.

"Far from it my dear. You need to get out of here fast and far. Daniel is all about finding you."

Fear crept into me and my face drained of color. Devilynn looked at me with a mixture of sadness and confusion.

"He marked me. I guess that means I'm his mate and he has crazy control over me. I hate it."

"Clock is ticking then. I can cloak you from him for a few hours, enough time to make your getaway. After that Selene should be able to hide you guys."

"Me?" Selene asked as she bolted up from my lap.

"Yes my dear. We are special you and I."

"Eraina called her a witch." I said looking down at Selene.

"Something to look into then." Devilynn said smiling.

"So everyone is dead?" I asked not believing it.

"You need not worry about Mortakie or his followers." Devilynn answered.

"If only Eraina knew about what happened to Mortakie." I said looking down.

"She knows. Eraina knew more than anyone gave her credit for. It's crazy to think and even harder to believe but now it all makes sense. She stayed in the shadows because she had to. No other child of light would have been able to stop Ariana if Eraina were to end her life so soon. Ariana needed to be stopped but that took some time and now the rest is history. Selene is safe and Eraina became an angel." Devilynn said rising.

"History. Something we will never know about." I said rising. I looked at Devilynn and smiled before hugging her tight. "I know it will never be as it was but at least I have this moment. Thank you."

Devilynn pulled away and smiled. I hoped it wasn't the last time I saw that smile but I knew it was the last I would see for now.

"Take care of each other." Devilynn said as she turned to walk away and stopped. "There is one more thing."

Devilynn tossed something behind her and I caught it. The weight threw me off and I almost fell. I looked up and she was gone.

"It looks like a jewelry box." Selene said passing her fingers over the intricate carving in the wood. "Are you going to open it?"

I looked down at the box and then out of the cave and an icy chill crawled up my back.

"No Selene. I'm not going to open it just yet." I said tearing my eyes away from the cave entrance and crouching down next to Selene. "How would you like to see where I was born Selene?"

"I would like that very much." Selene said smiling. I rose and put out my hand. Selene took hold of it and we left the cave. Devilynn said she could give us a few hours of cover and I intended to use that time to get the hell out of Spain as fast as possible.

Thanks for reading the second installment of The Village Café: New Bloods. Though some journeys have ended, many others are just beginning, where will they go? Stay tuned to find out. For those of you who missed out on the first book please download The Village Café. For those of you who can't wait to read more, The Village Café: The Greatest Love Story Never Told will be out in Spring of 2015. Comments are always welcomed and appreciated.

Connect with Me Online:

Email: Devilynn666@gmail.com

Facebook: http://facebook.com/eraine.kalinczuk

Smashwords: https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/Eraina

Other books by this author

The Village Cafe

The Village Cafe: New Bloods

The Village Cafe: The Greatest Love Story Never Told (Spring 2015)
