 
The rewards of some non-obligatory Salah/salat/namaz of Islam

BY MR.FAISAL FAHIM

This book is a dictionary of all Abrahamic religions. Please share the book and the knowledge of the book. If you read this book please pray for me to Allah to give me the best Jannah/heaven.Thank you and may Allah give you best Jannah/heaven too. Ameen.

Make AnonymousSincerely, Delete Question(Faisal Fahim)
A REQUEST FROM FAISAL: IF YOU LIKE THIS BOOK PLEASE SHARE IT AND FEEL FREE TO WRITE AN HONEST REVIEW.THERE IS NO GOD EXCEPT ONE ALLAH ALONE.MAY GOD REWARD YOU FOR A GOOD INTENSION.AMEEN.

Allah (swt) Says : "Invite to the Way of your Lord (i.e. Islam) with wisdom (i.e. with the Divine Revelation and the Qur'an) and fair preaching, and argue with them in a way that is better. Truly, your Lord knows best who has gone astray from His Path, and He is the Best Aware of those who are guided."[Quran 16:125]  
Allah also says '''Who is better in speech than one who calls to Allah, works righteousness, and says: I am of those who bow in submission?" (Quran 41:33)  
Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) said:"If Allah guides a person through you, it is better for you than all that is on the earth." (Bukhari No. 2783 & Muslim No. 2406).Convey (my teachings) to the people even if it were a single sentence" (Sahih Bukhari, Vol.4, Hadith 667) "Therefore listen not to the Unbelievers, but strive against them with the utmost strenuousness, with the (Qur'an)". 25.52 Quran

Yet do they worship, besides Allah, things that can neither profit them nor harm them: and the disbeliever is a helper (of Evil), against his own Lord! 25.55 Quran And I have sent you only as a giver of good news and as a warner. 25.56 Say: "No reward do I ask of you for it but this: that each one who will may take a (straight) Path to his Allah." 25.57 Al-Quran "Verily, those who conceal the clear proofs, evidences and the guidance, which We have sent down, after We have made it clear for the people in the Book, they are the ones cursed by Allah and cursed by the cursers."(Quran, al-Baqarah: 159) Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) said: "For Allah to guide one man through you is better for you than all that the sun has shined over".  
The Prophet (PBUH) has said: "Whoever guides [another] to a good deed will get a reward similar to the one who performs it."   
[Saheeh Muslim]

ABOUT FAISAL FAHIM: FAISAL WAS BORN IN BANGLADESH. HE SPENT HIS CHILDHOOD WITH HIS GRANDPARENTS IN BANGLADESH & HE SAW THEM PRAYING 5 TIMES A DAY. HE CAME TO AMERICA AT A YOUNG AGE AND HE IS AN AMERICAN BANGLADESHI MUSLIM.IN AMERICA HE LIVED WITH HIS PARENTS.HE WENT TO SCHOOLS IN NY. HE WENT TO VISIT BANGLADESH IN 2009 & HE SAW SOME VIDEOS OF DR.ZAKIR NAIK ON TV. THE VIDEOS WERE ABOUT SPREADING THE KNOWLEDGE OF ISLAM WITH MUSLIMS AND NONMUSLIMS.HE WAS INSPIRED BY DR.ZAKIR NAIK.HE LOVES ISLAM & BELIEVES ISLAM IS A RELIGION OF PEACE & MERCY.SO HE LIKES TO SPREAD THE MESSAGE OF ISLAM TO NONMUSLIMS AND MUSLIMS.

MESSAGE OF FAISAL FAHIM: SPREAD THE RELIGION OF ALLAH. SPREAD THE MESSAGE OF THE PROPHET MUHAMMAD PBUH.SHARE THE KNOWLEDGE OF ISLAM. SINCE IT WAS A DUTY OF THE PROPHET MUHAMMAD (PBUH) TO SPREAD THE MESSAGE OF ISLAM SO MUSLIMS SHOULD ALSO CONTINUE THIS GREATEST SUNNAH & EXPECT THE REWARD FROM ALLAH ONLY.ISLAM IS PEACE, LOVE, MERCY, KIND, HUMBLE, HONEST & THE ONLY FINAL TRUE RELIGION FROM GOD.

MAY ALLAH GUIDE US ALL .AMEEN.

The most recommended book of MR.FAISAL IS ("The Bible, the Qu'ran and Science: The Holy Scriptures Examined in the Light of Modern Knowledge: 4 books in 1") Authored by Mr. Faisal Fahim, Dr. Maurice Bucaille, Dr. Zakir Naik.

AND IT'S AVAILABLE ON AMAZON, www.barnesandnoble.com, www.createspace.com/4459947

INFORMATION ARRANGED AND ORGANIZED BY MR.FAISAL FAHIM.

Salatul Ishraq : Saaiduna Anas Bin Malik Radiallahu Anhu narrates that the Prophet of Allah Sallallahu Alahi Wasalam said "Whosoever offers his fajr prayer in congregation, then remains seated making zikr of Allah until the sun rises and thereafter offers two rakats, they will receive the reward of performing a Hajj and Umrah". (Sunan Tirmizi)

The Prophet (PBUH) has said: "Whoever guides [another] to a good deed will get a reward similar to the one who performs it."  
[Saheeh Muslim]  
If Allah guides a person through you, it is better for you than all that is on the earth." (Bukhari No. 2783 & Muslim No. 2406).Convey (my teachings) to the people even if it were a single sentence" (Sahih Bukhari, Vol.4, Hadith 667)

Dawah to non muslims  
<http://www.whatisyourgoal.org/> www.guideus.tv

Type www.amazon.com and search faisal fahim books

Salat-ut-Tasbih: Abu Rafi (R.A) narrated that Allah's Messenger (Peace be upon him) said to Abbas (R.A), "O Uncle! Shall I not join ties with you? Shall I not give you? Shall I not benefit you?" He said, "Of course, O Messenger of Allah!" So, he said, "O Uncle! Pray four raka'at. recite in each raka'ah the Surah Fatiha and a Surah and when you have finished the recital, say (Allahu Akbar Wal Hamdulillah Wa Subhan Allah) fifteen times before making the ruku. Then go into the ruku and repeat them ten times. Then raise your head and say the words ten times. Then go into prostrations and repeat them ten times, and raise your head and say the words ten times. Then prostrate and say the words ten times, and (again) raise your head and repeat them ten times before you stand up. So, this is (in all) seventy five in each raka'ah and it three hundred in all four rak'at. Even if your sins are like the sand particles of Aalij, Allah will forgive them for you". He ( Abbas (R.A) said, "O Messenger of Allah! Who can stand up for it every day?" He said, "If you cannot establish it every day, then observe it on Friday. And if you cannot do that every Friday then observe it every month". And he did not cease to say that until he said, "Offer it once in a year".  
Imam Tirmidhi (R.A) said: This hadith as narrated by Abu Rafi is Gharib.[Jami Tirmidhi (2/514)]

Salatul tahajjud : "Establish prayer at the decline of the sun [from its meridian] until the darkness of the night and [also] the Qur'an of dawn. Indeed, the recitation of dawn is ever witnessed.And from [part of] the night, pray with it as additional [worship] for you; it is expected that your Lord will resurrect you to a praised station." (Surah Isra, 17:78-79).

Here are some hadiths about tahajjud:

Abu Hurairah reports that the Messenger of Allah (saws) said: "Our Lord Descends to the lowest heaven during the last third of the night, inquiring: `Who will call on Me so that I may respond to him? Who is asking something of Me so I may give it to him? Who is asking for My forgiveness so I may forgive him?"[ Bukhari and Muslim.]

Abdullah ibn `Amr reports that the Prophet (saws) said: "The most beloved fast to Allah is the fast of (Prophet) Dawood (a.s.). And the most beloved prayer to Allah is the prayer of (Prophet) Dawood (a.s.). He (Prophet Dawood (a.s.)) would sleep half of the night and then pray during the next third of the night and then sleep during the last sixth of the night.And he would fast one day and not fast the next."[ Bukhari and Muslim.]

Abu Hurayra (Allah be pleased with him) reports that the Messenger of Allah (blessings and peace be upon him, his family, and companions) said, "The best prayer after the obligatory prayers is the night prayer."[Muslim]

Abd Allah ibn Salam (Allah be pleased with him) reports that the Messenger of Allah (blessings and peace be upon him, his family, and companions) said, "O people! Spread the salams, feed others, maintain family ties, and pray at night when others sleep and you will enter Heaven safely."[Tirmidhi, Hakim]

Narrated Al-Mughira: The Prophet(SAW) used to stand (in the prayer) or pray till both his feet or legs swelled. He was asked why (he offered such an unbearable prayer) and he said, "should I not be a thankful slave." [Bukahri]

Narrated Salim's father: In the life-time of the Prophet(SAW) whosoever saw a dream would narrate it to Allah's Apostle(SAW). I had a wish of seeing a dream to narrate it to Allah's Apostle (p.b.u.h) I was a grown up boy and used to sleep in the Mosque in the life-time of the Prophet. I saw in the dream that two angels caught hold of me and took me to the Fire which was built all round like a built well and had two poles in it and the people in it were known to me. I started saying, "I seek refuge with Allah from the Fire." Then I met another angel who told me not to be afraid. I narrated the dream to Hafsa who told it to Allah's Apostle(SAW). The Prophet(SAW) said, "Abdullah is a good man. I wish he prayed Tahajjud." After that 'Abdullah (i.e. Salim's father) used to sleep but a little at night. [Bukhari]

Narrated 'Aisha: Allah's Apostle(SAW) used to offer eleven Rakat and that was his prayer. He used to prolong the prostration to such an extent that one could recite fifty verses (of the Quran) before he would lift his head. He used to pray two Rakat (Sunna) before the Fajr prayer and then used to lie down on his right side till the call-maker came and informed him about the prayer. [Bukhari]

'Praying at Night in Ramadaan (Taraweeh)' of Sahih Bukhari.

226 Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Apostle saying regarding Ramadan, "Whoever prayed at night in it (the month of Ramadan) out of sincere Faith and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be forgiven."

227 Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Apostle said, "Whoever prayed at night the whole month of Ramadan out of sincere Faith and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be forgiven." Ibn Shihab (a sub-narrator) said, "Allah's Apostle died and the people continued observing that (i.e. Nawafil offered individually, not in congregation), and it remained as it was during the Caliphate of Abu Bakr and in the early days of 'Umar's Caliphate." 'Abdur Rahman bin 'Abdul Qari said, "I went out in the company of 'Umar bin Al-Khattab one night in Ramadan to the mosque and found the people praying in different groups. A man praying alone or a man praying with a little group behind him. So, 'Umar said, 'In my opinion I would better collect these (people) under the leadership of one Qari (Reciter) (i.e. let them pray in congregation!)'. So, he made up his mind to congregate them behind Ubai bin Ka'b. Then on another night I went again in his company and the people were praying behind their reciter. On that, 'Umar remarked, 'What an excellent Bid'a (i.e. innovation in religion) this is; but the prayer which they do not perform, but sleep at its time is better than the one they are offering.' He meant the prayer in the last part of the night. (In those days) people used to pray in the early part of the night."

228 Narrated 'Aisha: (the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Apostle used to pray (at night) in Ramadan.

229 Narrated 'Urwa: That he was informed by 'Aisha, "Allah's Apostle went out in the middle of the night and prayed in the mosque and some men prayed behind him. In the morning, the people spoke about it and then a large number of them gathered and prayed behind him (on the second night). In the next morning the people again talked about it and on the third night the mosque was full with a large number of people. Allah's Apostle came out and the people prayed behind him. On the fourth night the Mosque was overwhelmed with people and could not accommodate them, but the Prophet came out (only) for the morning prayer. When the morning prayer was finished he recited Tashah-hud and (addressing the people) said, "Amma ba'du, your presence was not hidden from me but I was afraid lest the night prayer (Qiyam) should be enjoined on you and you might not be able to carry it on." So, Allah's Apostle died and the situation remained like that (i.e. people prayed individually). "

230 Narrated Abu Salama bin 'Abdur Rahman: that he asked 'Aisha "How was the prayer of Allah's Apostle in Ramadan?" She replied, "He did not pray more than eleven Rakat in Ramadan or in any other month. He used to pray four Rakat ---- let alone their beauty and length----and then he would pray four \----let alone their beauty and length ----and then he would pray three Rakat (Witr)." She added, "I asked, 'O Allah's Apostle! Do you sleep before praying the Witr?' He replied, 'O 'Aisha! My eyes sleep but my heart does not sleep."

231 Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet said, "Whoever fasted the month of Ramadan out of sincere Faith (i.e. belief) and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his past sins will be forgiven, and whoever stood for the prayers in the night of Qadr out of sincere Faith and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be forgiven ."

232 Narrated Ibn 'Umar: Some men amongst the companions of the Prophet were shown in their dreams that the night of Qadr was in the last seven nights of Ramadan. Allah's Apostle said, "It seems that all your dreams agree that (the Night of Qadr) is in the last seven nights, and whoever wants to search for it (i.e. the Night of Qadr) should search in the last seven (nights of Ramadan)."

233 Narrated Abu Salama: I asked Abu Sa'id, and he was a friend of mine, (about the Night of Qadr) and he said, "We practiced Itikaf (seclusion in the mosque) in the middle third of the month of Ramadan with the Prophet . In the morning of the 20th of Ramadan, the Prophet came and addressed us and said, 'I was informed of (the date of the Night of Qadr) but I was caused to forget it; so search for it in the odd nights of the last ten nights of the month of Ramadan. (In the dream) I saw myself prostrating in mud and water (as a sign). So, whoever was in l'tikaf with me should return to it with me (for another 10-day's period)', and we returned. At that time there was no sign of clouds in the sky but suddenly a cloud came and it rained till rain-water started leaking through the roof of the mosque which was made of date-palm leaf stalks. Then the prayer was established and I saw Allah's Apostle prostrating in mud and water and I saw the traces of mud on his forehead."

234 Narrated 'Aisha: Allah's Apostle said, "Search for the Night of Qadr in the odd nights of the last ten days of Ramadan."

235 Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri: Allah's Apostle used to practice Itikaf (in the mosque) in the middle third of Ramadan and after passing the twenty nights he used to go back to his house on the 21st, and the people who were in Itikaf with him also used to go back to their houses. Once in Ramadan, in which he practiced Itikaf, he established the night prayers at the night in which he used to return home, and then he addressed the people and ordered them whatever Allah wished him to order and said, "I used to practice Itikaf for these ten days (i.e. the middle 113rd but now I intend to stay in Itikaf for the last ten days (of the month); so whoever was in Itikaf with me should stay at his place of seclusion. I have verily been shown (the date of) this Night (of Qadr) but I have forgotten it. So search for it in the odd nights of the last ten days (of this month). I also saw myself (in the dream) prostrating in mud and water." On the night of the 21st, the sky was covered with clouds and it rained, and the rain-water started leaking through the roof of the mosque at the praying place of the Prophet . I saw with my own eyes the Prophet at the completion of the morning prayer leaving with his face covered with mud and water.

235 Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri: Allah's Apostle used to practice Itikaf (in the mosque) in the middle third of Ramadan and after passing the twenty nights he used to go back to his house on the 21st, and the people who were in Itikaf with him also used to go back to their houses. Once in Ramadan, in which he practiced Itikaf, he established the night prayers at the night in which he used to return home, and then he addressed the people and ordered them whatever Allah wished him to order and said, "I used to practice Itikaf for these ten days (i.e. the middle 113rd but now I intend to stay in Itikaf for the last ten days (of the month); so whoever was in Itikaf with me should stay at his place of seclusion. I have verily been shown (the date of) this Night (of Qadr) but I have forgotten it. So search for it in the odd nights of the last ten days (of this month). I also saw myself (in the dream) prostrating in mud and water." On the night of the 21st, the sky was covered with clouds and it rained, and the rain-water started leaking through the roof of the mosque at the praying place of the Prophet . I saw with my own eyes the Prophet at the completion of the morning prayer leaving with his face covered with mud and water.

236 Narrated 'Aisha: The Prophet said, "Look for (the Night of Qadr)."

237 Narrated 'Aisha: Allah's Apostle used to practice Itikaf in the last ten nights of Ramadan and used to say, "Look for the Night of Qadr in the last ten nights of the month of Ramadan ,"

238 Narrated Ibn Abbas: The Prophet said, "Look for the Night of Qadr in the last ten nights of Ramadan ,' on the night when nine or seven or five nights remain out of the last ten nights of Ramadan (i.e. 21, 23, 25, respectively)."

239 Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: Allah's Apostle said, "The Night of Qadr is in the last ten nights of the month (Ramadan), either on the first nine or in the last (remaining) seven nights (of Ramadan)." Ibn 'Abbas added, "Search for it on the twenty-fourth (of Ramadan)."

240 Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: The Prophet came out to inform us about the Night of Qadr but two Muslims were quarreling with each other. So, the Prophet said, "I came out to inform you about the Night of Qadr but such-and-such persons were quarreling, so the news about it had been taken away; yet that might be for your own good, so search for it on the 29th, 27th and 25th (of Ramadan).

241 Narrated Aisha: With the start of the last ten days of Ramadan, the Prophet used to tighten his waist belt (i.e. work hard) and used to pray all the night, and used to keep his family awake for the prayers.

Umrah in (that month) is equivalent to Hajj." Al-Bukhari (1782) and Muslim (1256) narrated that Ibn Abbaas said: The Messenger of Allaah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said to a woman from among the Ansaar – Ibn Abbaas mentioned her name but I forgot it – "What kept you from performing Hajj with us?" She said: We only have two camels and the father of her son and her son had gone for Hajj on one camel, and he left us the other camel so that we could carry water on it. He said: "When Ramadan comes, go for Umrah, for Umrah in (that month) is equivalent to Hajj."

Narrated Abu Huraira: Some poor people came to the Prophet Muhammad Sallalahu Alayhi Wassalam and said, "The wealthy people will get higher grades and will have permanent enjoyment, and they offer Salaah (prayer) like us and observe Sawm (fast) as we do. They have more money by which they perform the Hajj, and 'Umra; fight and struggle in Allah's Cause and give in charity." The Prophet Muhammad Sallalahu Alayhi Wassalam said, "Shall I not tell you a thing upon which if you acted you would catch up with those who have surpassed you? Nobody would overtake you and you would be better than the people amongst whom you live except those who would do the same. Say SubhanAllah, Alhamdulillah and Allahu Akbar thirty three times each after every (compulsory) Salaah (prayer)." We differed and some of us said that we should say, SubhanAllah thirty three times Alhamdulillah thirty three times and Allahu Akbar thirty four times. I went to the Prophet Muhammad (sal-allahu-alleihi-wasallam) who said, "Say, Subhan Allah and Alhamdulillah and Allahu Akbar all of them thirty three times." [Sahih Bukhari; Hadith No. 479]  
"All Glory be to Allaah"  
"All praise be to Allaah"  
"Allaah is greater"  
Du'a after Salaah

"None has the right to be worshiped but Allaah alone, He has no partner, His is the dominion and His is the praise, and He is Able to do all things. O Allaah, there is none who can withhold what You give, and none may give what You have withheld; and the might of the mighty person cannot benefit him against You"

Our Beloved SalAllahu Alaihi Wasallam, said:

  1. The Prophet Muhammad said, may Allah's peace and blessings be upon him: Your Heaven lies under the feet of your mother (Ahmad, Nasai).

Mu'awiyah ibn Jahima (RadhiAllahu 'anhu) reported,

Jahima (RadhiAllahu 'anhu) came to the Prophet ﷺ and he said:

"O Messenger of Allah ﷺ, I intend to join the expedition and I seek your advice."

The Prophet ﷺ said, "Do you have a mother?"

He said, "Yes."

The Prophet ﷺ said, "Stay with her, for verily Paradise is beneath her feet."

[Sunan An-Nasa'i, Book of Jihad, Number 3104]

2. A man came to the Prophet and said, 'O Messenger of God! Who among the people is the most worthy of my good companionship? The Prophet said: Your mother. The man said, 'Then who?' The Prophet said: Then your mother. The man further asked, 'Then who?' The Prophet said: Then your mother. The man asked again, 'Then who?' The Prophet said: Then your father. (Bukhari, Muslim).

3. Abu Usaid Saidi said: We were once sitting with Rasulullah when a man from the tribe of Salmah came and said to him: O Messenger of Allah! do my parents have rights over me even after they have died? And Rasulullah said: Yes. You must pray to Allah to bless them with His Forgiveness and Mercy, fulfill the promises they made to anyone, and respect their relations and their friends (Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah).

4. Abdullah ibn Amr related that the Messenger of Allah said: The major sins are to believe that Allah has partners, to disobey one's parents, to commit murder, and to bear false witness (Bukhari, Muslim).

5. It is narrated by Asma bint Abu Bakr that during the treaty of Hudaibiyah, her mother, who was then pagan, came to see her from Makkah. Asma informed the Messenger of Allah of her arrival and also that she needed help. He said: Be good to your mother (Bukhari, Muslim).

Our Beloved SalAllahu Alaihi Wasallam, said:

1. "Whoever meets Allah without ascribing anything to Him will enter Jannah." [Bukhari]

2. "Whoever believes (has Imaan) in Allah and His Messenger (sal Allahu alayhi wa sallam), and establishes the prayer and fasts the month of Ramadan, it is incumbent upon Allah that He enters him in Jannah." [Bukhari]

3." Whoever builds a masjid seeking by it the Pleasure of Allah, Allah will build for him a similar place in Jannah." [Bukhari]

4. "Whoever prays the two cool prayers (Asr and Fajr) will enter Jannah." [Bukhari]

5. "Whoever goes to the masjid (every) morning and in the afternoon (for the congregational prayer), Allah will prepare for him an honorable place in Jannah with good hospitality for (what he has done) every morning and afternoon goings." [Bukhari]

6. "Whoever can guarantee (the chastity of) what is between his two jaw-bones and what is between his two legs (i.e. his tongue and his private parts), I guarantee Jannah for him." [Bukhari]

7. "Whoever prays 12 rakaat in the day and night, a house in Jannah will be built for him." [Muslim]

8. "Whoever treads a path in search of knowledge, Allah will make easy for him the path to Jannah." [Bukhari]

9. "Whoever repeats after the muadhdhin from his heart (i.e., sincerely) will enter Jannah." [Abu Dawud]

10. "There is not one of you who perfects his wudu and prays two rakaat setting about them with his heart as well as his face except that Jannah would be mandatory for him." [Abu Dawud]

11. Whoever says: "I am pleased with Allah as my Rabb, and with Islam as my Deen, and with Muhammad (sal Allahu alayhi wa sallam) as my Prophet, Jannah would be mandatory for him." [Abu Dawud]

12. "Whosoever last words are: laa ilaaha il Allah, will enter Paradise."  
[Abu Dawud, Saheeh]

13. Whoever says "SubhanAllah al-Adheem wa biHamdihi, Glorified and Exalted is Allah, The Great, and with His Praise", a date-palm will planted for him in Jannah."[Tirmidhi]

14. "Whoever dies and is free from three: arrogance, grudges and debt will enter Jannah." [Tirmidhi]

15. "Whoever raises two girls, he and I will enter Jannah." [Tirmidhi]

16. "Whoever calls the adhan for 12 years, Jannah will become mandatory for him."[ibn Maajah]

17. Whoever asks Allah for Jannah three times, Jannah will say: "O Allah, enter him into Jannah." [Tirmidhi]

18. "Whoever visits an ailing person or a brother of his to seek the Pleasure of Allah, an announcer (angel) calls out: May you be happy, may your walking be blessed, and may you be awarded a dignified position in Jannah." [Tirmidhi]

19. "Indeed, truthfulness leads to righteousness and indeed righteousness leads to Jannah.' [Bukhari]

20. "Allah guarantees him who strives in His Cause and whose motivation for going out is nothing but Jihad in His Cause and belief in His Word, that He will admit him into Jannah." [Bukhari]

21. "O people, spread the salaam (greetings), feed the hungry, and pray while the people are asleep, you will enter Jannah in peace." [Tirmidhi]

22. "(The performance of) Umrah is an expiation for the sins committed between it and the previous Umrah; and the reward of Hajj Mabrur (i.e., one accepted) is nothing but Jannah." [Bukhari]

23. "Allah has ninety-nine Names, one hundred minus one, and whoever believes in their meanings and acts accordingly, will enter Jannah." [Bukhari]

24. "I saw a man going about in Jannah (and enjoying himself) as a reward for cutting from the middle of the road, a tree which was causing inconvenience to the Muslims." [Muslim]

25."If somebody recites this invocation during the day, and if he should die then, he will be from the people of Jannah. And if he recites it in the night, and if he should die on the same day, he will be from the people of Jannah." [Bukhari]

"Allahumma anta Rabbi la ilaha illa anta Khalaqtani wa ana 'abduka, wa ana 'ala 'ahdika wa Wa'dika mastata'tu abu'u Laka bi ni 'matika wa abu'u Laka bidhanbi; faghfirli fa'innahu la yaghfiru-dh-dhunuba ill a anta. A'uidhu bika min sharri ma sana'tu,abu'u Laka bini'matika 'alaiya, wa Abu Laka bidhanbi faghfirli innahu la yaghfiru adhdhunuba illa anta"Add Update

Allah (swt) Says : "Invite to the Way of your Lord (i.e. Islam) with wisdom (i.e. with the Divine Revelation and the Qur'an) and fair preaching, and argue with them in a way that is better. Truly, your Lord knows best who has gone astray from His Path, and He is the Best Aware of those who are guided."[Quran 16:125]  
Allah also says '''Who is better in speech than one who calls to Allah, works righteousness, and says: I am of those who bow in submission?" (Quran 41:33)  
Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) said:"If Allah guides a person through you, it is better for you than all that is on the earth." (Bukhari No. 2783 & Muslim No. 2406).Convey (my teachings) to the people even if it were a single sentence" (Sahih Bukhari, Vol.4, Hadith 667) "Therefore listen not to the Unbelievers, but strive against them with the utmost strenuousness, with the (Qur'an)". 25.52 Quran

Yet do they worship, besides Allah, things that can neither profit them nor harm them: and the disbeliever is a helper (of Evil), against his own Lord! 25.55 Quran And I have sent you only as a giver of good news and as a warner. 25.56 Say: "No reward do I ask of you for it but this: that each one who will may take a (straight) Path to his Allah." 25.57 Al-Quran "Verily, those who conceal the clear proofs, evidences and the guidance, which We have sent down, after We have made it clear for the people in the Book, they are the ones cursed by Allah and cursed by the cursers."(Quran, al-Baqarah: 159) Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) said: "For Allah to guide one man through you is better for you than all that the sun has shined over".  
The Prophet (PBUH) has said: "Whoever guides [another] to a good deed will get a reward similar to the one who performs it."   
[Saheeh Muslim]

ABOUT FAISAL FAHIM: FAISAL WAS BORN IN BANGLADESH. HE SPENT HIS CHILDHOOD WITH HIS GRANDPARENTS IN BANGLADESH & HE SAW THEM PRAYING 5 TIMES A DAY. HE CAME TO AMERICA AT A YOUNG AGE AND HE IS AN AMERICAN BANGLADESHI MUSLIM.IN AMERICA HE LIVED WITH HIS PARENTS.HE WENT TO SCHOOLS IN NY. HE WENT TO VISIT BANGLADESH IN 2009 & HE SAW SOME VIDEOS OF DR.ZAKIR NAIK ON TV. THE VIDEOS WERE ABOUT SPREADING THE KNOWLEDGE OF ISLAM WITH MUSLIMS AND NONMUSLIMS.HE WAS INSPIRED BY DR.ZAKIR NAIK.HE LOVES ISLAM & BELIEVES ISLAM IS A RELIGION OF PEACE & MERCY.SO HE LIKES TO SPREAD THE MESSAGE OF ISLAM TO NONMUSLIMS AND MUSLIMS.

MESSAGE OF FAISAL FAHIM: SPREAD THE RELIGION OF ALLAH. SPREAD THE MESSAGE OF THE PROPHET MUHAMMAD PBUH.SHARE THE KNOWLEDGE OF ISLAM. SINCE IT WAS A DUTY OF THE PROPHET MUHAMMAD (PBUH) TO SPREAD THE MESSAGE OF ISLAM SO MUSLIMS SHOULD ALSO CONTINUE THIS GREATEST SUNNAH & EXPECT THE REWARD FROM ALLAH ONLY.ISLAM IS PEACE, LOVE, MERCY, KIND, HUMBLE, HONEST & THE ONLY FINAL TRUE RELIGION FROM GOD.

MAY ALLAH GUIDE US ALL .AMEEN.

INFORMATION ARRANGED AND ORGANIZED BY MR.FAISAL FAHIM.

Introduction of the book:

Allah has promised to keep The Quran same until the Day of Judgment & challenged humans to create another accurate book like Quran & said if you can't, surrender to your lord (the only way of peace& heaven). Quran is word of god & it has the information of past, present& future. God reveled to Prophet Muhammad whatever god wanted to & kept some information only to god by reveling some & not reveling some. But still Quran is 1 great source of information from God.

Do Muslims worship the Mecca? No Muslims bow towards the direction of mecca & worship only 1 God Allah. While praying in a mosque if Muslims will not have a direction they will end up praying facing or towards each other .The Quran & Prophet Muhammad taught us to bow towards the direction of mecca while we only pray & worship Allah. And it's also important for the unity of Muslims.

THE QURAN PROVES WATER CAME FROM ROCKS FROM THE SPACE (by FAISAL)Scientists don't know for sure. Perhaps the most popular theory says that, shortly after the Earth formed, millions of asteroids and comets, saturated in water, slammed into the planet, releasing their payloads to form Earth's oceans . Scientists are working hard to understand more about what our planet was like billions of years ago, and each new piece of information moves us closer to understanding how Earth's oceans, lakes and rivers came to exist.But the quran already has the answer because the quran is more superior than science & it's the only 100% true book of God's words. Thenceforth were your hearts hardened: They became like a rock and even worse in hardness. For among rocks there are some from which rivers gush forth; others there are which when split asunder send forth water; and others which sink for fear of Allah. And Allah is not unmindful of what ye do. 2:74 al-Baqarah Verse: 74 AL-QURAN.

On the authority of Abu Malik al-Harith bin Asim al-Asharee (may Allah be pleased with him) who said:The Messenger of Allah (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said, "Purity is half of iman (faith). 'Al-hamdu lillah (praise be to Allah)' fills the scales, and 'subhan-Allah (how far is Allah from every imperfection) and 'Al-hamdulillah (praise be to Allah)' fill that which is between heaven and earth. And the salah (prayer) is a light, and charity is a proof, and patience is illumination, and the Qur'an is a proof either for you or against you. Every person starts his day as a vendor of his soul, either freeing it or causing its ruin." It was related by Muslim.

God definition By Faisal: God does not born or die. Who has no beginning or end. Does not need to become human, animal or insect to understand his creation. He is the creator who knows what he has created. He is the most wise. So, he knows everything. He feeds everyone, but he doesn't need to eat or sleep or use toilet. True God is the creator who is not part of the creation. So, he has no father, mother, wife or children. He's above all & unique. There's none like him & he's only one, who has no partner & no gender. So, he's the creator of all creation & not part of his or any creation. That is the definition of one true God in Islam which is Allah. Allah has created the humans in a pair of male& female to worship him & in different colors, languages, countries to respect & recognize each other.Tv,watch,computer,phone everything has a purpose. Purpose of us is not just only to eat,poo,have sex&sleep .purpose of life is to obey & worship the creator because humans are the most superior of creation & our purpose is to serve god by praising & praying.No1 is superior whether you are black or white,arab or non arab,male or female .For god everyone is equel.Islam is the only religion that is against racism. Allah is the most just & God judges you by your heart only not by your looks. Islam is an accurate, just & peaceful religion of 1 god creator lord Allah.

In Quran, It says "If you kill one human being it's as

If you have killed the entire of humanity. And if you

save one human being. It's as you saved the entire

of humanity". So, for killing you go to hell, for saving you go to heaven. There was no suicide bombers in the time of prophet Mohammad. Islam believes God created the first humans were Adam & eve without any father & mother. The devil made them eat a fruit that was told by God to not to eat.

And they got poo, but, they were not allowed to poo in heaven. You can eat everything in heaven & you wont get poo & it's a unholy thing you get it when you eat foods on earth & the 1forbidden fruit that was in heaven. So, as punishment God sent them to earth. Adam&Eve were married &having sex for married couples is not sin in islam. All humans are children of Adam & eve. In

Islam from Adam to Moses, to Jesus to Mohammad

God sent all of them as messengers prophets & humans to

spread the true religion. Because God created Adam

& Eve without any father & mother. It means true

creator can create everything in any way he wants

to, for example If he says something to happen It'll

just happen. The same way he made Adam & Eve

without being their father & mother plus also having

no father & mother. He has the wisdom & power of

over everything. Similarity of creating Adam a

slight differently he created prophet Jesus as one of the

mightiest messengers of God with having just

mother without any father. Because God can do

anything God can create humans without father &

mother as well as having a mother but no father.

That's the true miracle & it can only be done by one

true creator. And that's the believe of Islam that the

true God is Allah who has no partner, no parents, no

children, no wife, doesn't born or die, has no image

because there's none like him, does not eat but feeds

everyone & does not sleep. In Islam the name of prophet

Jesus is Isa. And Jesus/Isa did everything with the

power of Allah (God). God gave him the power to

do it. Who created Jesus as a messenger of God.

Similarly he created Adam, Moses, Abraham, Noah,

Isa as Jesus, Mohammad as messengers of peace &

Islam towards humanity. And God can't be part of

creation. If it's part of creation then it's not the

creator or God or Allah. Even in Bible it says Jesus

put his head on the floor as Muslims put their head

on the floor for praying. 80% of Quran matches with

Science & other 20% of Quran the Science does not

have the answers because they haven't discovered

or improved that much. For example Quran talks

about heaven, hell, & there are aliens. Science has

no answer for everything but Quran has all the

answers since last 1400 years even when Science

had no answers. In the Bible it talks about Prophet

Noah & the story goes something like this that the

Prophet received a message from God that there

would be a flood all over the world. So, he built a big

boat & he took some people & a pair of every

animals. According to Science there was not a flood

which happened all over the world but it happened

in a particular part of earth. Quran also tells it

happened in a particular part of the world. Quran

also talks about humans are partly formed from

father & partly formed from mother. And today

Science agrees with it. So, if some one reads Quran

& do a scientific research it'll help to understand

what the truth is & what is fiction. Bible says, the

world is flat & circle. Scientifically it's not true. A

coin is also flat & circle. Quran tells the original

shape of earth. Science can't prove any error in

Quran but tells errors on Bible. Don't believe it! Do

your own research & believe what's logical. Don't

ask people but do your own research so, you can

believe in true God the creator of all creation but not

a creation. Islam also teaches black cumin cures so

many diseases without any side effects. The ultimate

goal of saitan (Devil) is to take humans towards hell

& shirk. Shirk means to associate or include

someone with God. True God has no partner, can't

compare him with any creation because he has

created the creation, how can he be part of what he

created? Remember true religion should have all the

answers Of humanity & should not have any

missing links. Islam believes Quran is 100% words

of one creator God Allah. People might think there

are 2 types of Muslims Shia & Sunni. But they both

have same book Quran. And in Quran there is no

Sunni or Shia. Islam is one religion & Quran is the

only one book Of God in Islam. The followers of

Islam & Quran are called Muslims. No Muslim is a

Muslim unless he beliefs Adam, Moses, Abraham,

Jesus, Noah, Mohammad were all messengers of

one God Allah. No Muslim is a good Muslim unless

he's a good human being. Islam teaches to live

peacefully with people of every religion, race, color,

language & nationalities. So we should understand,

respect& live peacefully with each other. In the last

100 years to now Islam is the fastest growing

religion in the world. That's why some governments

& Medias create lies & misconceptions about Islam.

Remember, true religion is the one that answers all

the questions of humanity. Science can't prove any

error in Quran. And true book of God can't have any

errors. Muslims believe Torah & Bible were books

of God but they have been changed by humans. So,

Quran is the last & final book of God. Quran is only

one book but you can find it in all languages. Any

one who believes in God should do research on

Science, Quran & Bible. Fact is stranger then

fiction. The book of God should have all the

answers for humanity with no errors & word of God

can't have errors!

Question: Does Quran mention that Prophet Muhammad is the last prophet? Muhammad is not the father of any of your men, but [he is] the messenger of God and seal(last,finish,end,final) of the prophets and God has the knowledge of everything. (Quran 33:40)

 | Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is mentioned by name in the Song of Solomon chapter 5 verse 16:

prophet Muhammad (pbuh) mentioned by name in the old testament: Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is mentioned by name in the Song of Solomon chapter 5 verse 16:"Hikko Mamittakim we kullo Muhammadim Zehdoodeh wa Zehraee Bayna Jerusalem.""His mouth is most sweet: yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem."In the Hebrew language im is added for respect. Similarely im is added after the name of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) to make it Muhammadim. In English translation they have even translated the name of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) as "altogether lovely", but in the Old Testament in Hebrew, the name of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is yet present.It's majestic plural noun like Elohim which refers to 1 God only.so Muhammadim also refers to 1 Muhammad even though im can refer also to be plural.(Edited by Faisal)

Was prophet Jesus punished for other peoples sins:No,it was his enemy whose look was turned into the look & face of jesus.jesus was taken alive to heaven by God.jesus will come back and will die on this earth as a human & messenger of allah.from Adam to Moses to Jesus to Mohammad god sent all of them as messengers & they were all muslims.God is the most just .He never does unjust.Every one will be punished for their own sins.God will never punish Jesus or anyone for the sins of others because that's unjust & common sence.God is the most merciful he will forgive whoever he wishes to. But the sinner will have to ask for forgiveness ,beg for it & promise god to not to repeat it again & god will forgive. Pray to god:god you love forgiveness,you are the forgiver I'm a sinner so please forgive me. people judge people .Allah judges you by your heart.

Quran is not a copy of anything & there is no evidence to say such. Statements in Quran are against torah & bible.Torah & bible has so many errors. & according to science 80%of Quran matches with science &other 20%of Quran science doesn't have answers maybe it will take couple of hundred years to find out for sciense. Acording to historians original bible doesn't exist anymore. According to Islam torah&bible were books of Allah but humans have destroyed their originality. So Quran is the last &final word of god Allah &Muhammad is the last&final messenger of Allah. Quran is not copy of anything and its 100% word of god in Islam. According to science torah &bibles statements have errors &Qurans statements are accurate &word of god is accurate.

Question: why women can't have 4 husbands?

Answer: If a man has 4 wives &they have a child there would be 1father&that's the husband only. If a woman has 4 husbands &she gives birth it would be confusing to know who is father out of 4.But now with DNA test you can find out. And suddenly all 4 wives want to be a mom. They can go to 1 husband make love, wait couple of more months &finally give birth of their childs.In the same time 4 husbands want to have their own baby with 1 wife & only she can give birth the husbands can't give birth &they don't want their baby in a test tube or other women to give birth except their own married wife. Now they will either kill each other to have 1 to make love with his wife or divorce her or leave her forever or even worst rape & kill her simply creating the most dangerous situation. A man is allowed to marry up to 4 only not 5 or 6.First the rule is to marry only 1 & then if he can do justice&treat all 4 100% equally and of course take her all responsibility meaning can effort her 100% only then he can marry upto 4.Prophet Muhammad said the best of man is the 1 who is the best to his wife. A man asked the prophet who should I do the most favor to 1st he replied your mother the man asked 2nd he replied your mother man asked 3rd he replied your mother, man asked for 4th time he replied your father. The mother has 3times more right then the father. He also said the heaven is in beneath the foot of your mother. A wife's heaven is beneath the foot of her husband. In Quran it says men are like the clothes to their wives &wives are like the clothes to their husbands. It means they are both equal to Allah god even their physical shapes & purpose are different. & clothes were very important things in that time &still are. It's a grace a mercy & a blessing of god Allah that women can give birth and be a mother which man can never do or earn that right & respect &position of a woman in Islam. But in Christianity and Judaism giving birth and having the monthly period or menses was seen as a punishment &a curse from god. In the past they even dared to ask if a woman had a soul? Again the maximum wives a man can have are 4 not anymore. The bible has no restrictions on how many wives or husbands can a person have it's the church's decision to have 1husband&1wife.In Islam a woman can have only 1 husband. For more information search in Google by your own self &believe in the evidence from god the holy Quran which provides peace &protection for humanity. May Allah guide&protect all.No hate only love peace&godbless for all.

 |

---

Mistakes in the Torah proved by the discoveries of

modern science

The Torah has many verses, which contradict modern scientific facts.

These contradictions indicate that the Torah is not the word of Allah

(S.W.) who is far from errors and ignorance of science facts that man

discovered later. Allah (S.W.), the Omniscient, would not tell in his

book except the truth. He has a complete perfect knowledge of every

thing in the universe.

\- The Torah mentions the story of the creation in Genesis, where it

talks about the creation of the universe in six earthly days consisting

of mornings and evenings.

According to the biblical order, on the first day, He created the earth,

the light, the darkness, and the water. On the second day, He created

the sky when He put a firmament between water and water, and on

the third day, the water gathered under the firmament, the land

appeared and the herbs and grass grew.

On the fourth day, He created the sun, the moon, and the stars that

above the firmament (the sky), and on the fifth day, He created the

marine animals and the birds. On the sixth day, He created Adam

and the wild animals, and finished the creation on that day. (See

Genesis 1: 1 - 31)

Scientists note that the order and the directing of the story of the

beginning of the universe are rejected by modern science that Allah

(S.W.) gave to humanity. If these books were from Allah (S.W.), they

would not contain these continuous errors.

Genesis talks about six earthly days consisting of days and nights

(And there was evening and there was morning), and the

seventh day was the Sabbath, on which the Creator rested (God

Almighty is far above that). It is well known scientifically that the

creation of the universal happened during periods of millions of years.

Allah (S.W.) is right when He mentions in the Holy Quran the

difference between His days and human days. "Verily, a Day in the

sight of thy Lord is like a thousand years of your reckoning."

(Holy Quran, Surah 22, Al-Hajj – 47)

Scientists say that the Earth's surface took millions of years to cool

down and became suitable for living. Genesis says that the water

appeared on earth on its first day, then the appearance of the plants

on its third, and the animals on the fourth and the fifth days.

The biblical order of the appearance of the creations contradicts the

findings of geologic history. The presence of water on the face of the

earth on the first day contradicts the scientific theory that the earth

and the universe were gas at the beginning of creation. In addition,

the plants cannot appear before the existence of the sun, and the

marine animals and birds were not before wild animals.

Scientifically, saying that the creation of the earth was before the

creation of the sun and the stars (on the fourth day) is wrong.

Moreover, the appearance of the night and the day for three days,

without the sun is surprising!

In addition, saying that the appearance of plants was three days

before man is wrong. Scientific discoveries tell us that the presence

of vegetations was millions of years before the presence of man. The

majority of the objections about this story of creation are in father

Devoux's criticism of Genesis.

\- Among the scientific observations on the Torah, is that it speaks at

length about the age of the founding fathers from Adam to Abraham.

It makes the birth of Abraham in the twentieth century from the

beginning of human existence on earth, specifically in the year1948

of the creation of the universe and the appearance of man on earth.

There is no historical accurate information about the period between

Abraham and Jesus, but historians estimated it to be eighteen

centuries, depending on the biblical sources. Therefore, the

appearance of Christ was thirty-eight centuries after the creation of

Adam.

1 - The Torah, the Gospel, and the Quran and Science, Maurice Bocaille , pp 44 – 51, A study on the Torah

and the Gospel, Kamel Saafan, pp179, Readings in the Holy Bible, Abderrahim Mohamad, Vol.2, pp 182 -

183

According to the Hebrew date, the year (2000) is equal to the year

5761 of the creation of the universe; therefore, the biblical information

makes human life on earth no more than six thousand years.

This contradicts the scientific data, which consider the biblical

Informations are full of errors or written by men not God.

Science has proved the

existence of civilizations five thousand years before the birth of

Jesus.

Archaeologists believe that there was a bloody war between the north

and the south of Egypt in 4042 BCE, and won by the people of the

Egyptian Delta. However, their victory was not decisive, as the

Egyptian civilization recorded history started with the first family,

which ruled Egypt between 3400 to 3200 BCE, and there is much that

that had not been recorded.

Archaeologists also found human-made things that belong to more

than five thousand years BCE, and the mission of Cairo University

found traces of humans in the Fayoum region belong to tens of

thousands of earlier years.

Encyclopedia Britannica states that the human traces in Palestine

belong to two hundred thousand years. Donald Jean said in 1979,

"The human presence on earth was four million years ago".

Allah (S.W.) is right when He affirms in the Holy Quran that humanity

started long centuries ago. "(Pharaoh) said: "What then is the

condition of previous generations?" He replied: "The knowledge

of that is with my Lord, duly recorded: my Lord never errs, nor

forgets." (Holy Quran, Surah 20, Ta Ha – 51 - 52) "As also 'Ad and

Thamud, and the Companions of the Rass, and many a

generation between them." (Holy Quran, Surah 25, Al Furqan – 38)

"Has not the story reached you, (O people!), of those who (went)

before you of the people of Noah, and 'Ad, and Thamud? - And

of those who (came) after them? None knows them but Allah."

(Holy Quran, Surah 14, Ibrahim – 38)

2 - The Torah, the Gospel, and the Quran and Science, Maurice Bocaille , pp 20, A study on the Torah and

the Gospel, Kamel Saafan, pp179

\- In addition, there are many things the Torah mentions that are

contrary to the scientifically well established facts. It mentions that the

rabbit is one of the ruminant animals! It says, "Nevertheless these

ye shall not eat of them that chew the cud, or of them that

have the hoof cloven: the camel, and the hare, and the

coney; because they chew the cud but part not the hoof,

they are unclean unto you" (Deuteronomy 14: 7)

\- It also mentions that the serpent was punished by eating or licking

the soil, (See Genesis 3:14), as in the Book of Micah. "They shall

lick the dust like a serpent; like crawling things of the

earth" (Micah 7: 17) All types of snakes that scientifically classified

eat insects and reptiles and others, they never eat or lick soil.

\- Leviticus speaks of legendary birds that have four legs - some leap,

and some walk -, which do not exist except in legendary fiction. It

says, "All winged creeping things that go upon all fours are

an abomination unto you. Yet these may ye eat of all

winged creeping things that go upon all fours, which have

legs above their feet, wherewith to leap upon the earth.

Even these of them ye may eat... But all winged creeping

things, which have four feet, are an abomination unto

you." (Leviticus 11: 20-23) No archaeological reports or other

information states that something like this was on the face of earth

one day.

\- Among the scientific errors also is what the Book of Genesis

mentions (30: 37-43). It claims that Jacob's sheep produced, and the

color of the production was different from the color of the parents. He

prepared some rods of fresh poplar and almond and pealed white

streaks on them. Seeing these peeled rods, the sheep craved, and

brought forth ring streaked, speckled, and spotted sheep. If this was

true, the sheep's production in spring would be green, but this

mistake is man made errors & is contrary to what scientists

know about genes and genetic codes.so, it can't be word of the lord.

\- The Book of Genesis mentions the strangest birth story, namely the

story of Tamar, the adulterous, delivering the twins from Judas, her

father-in-law and the father of her husbands. "And it came to pass

in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins were in her

womb. And it came to pass, when she travailed, that one

put out a hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his

hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first.

And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that,

behold, his brother came out: and she said, Wherefore hast

thou made a breach for thyself? Therefore his name was

called Perez. And afterward came out his brother, that had

the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called

Zerah" (Genesis 38: 27-30) The first-born put his hand out of his

mother's womb, which is unusual during the birth process. However,

the baby wanted to affirm his right of being the first-born child, and

the midwife understood him, and bound upon his hand a scarlet

thread.

Then a stranger thing, which medical theories cannot explain,

happened. The first-born gave a space so his twin brother so he

could come out into the world, and then he (whom his hand had a

scarlet thread) followed him. This story cannot be accepted

scientifically, and append it to the stories of the elderly better than

append it to Allah's (S.W.) word and revelation.

\- The Book of Job gives a strange vision of the creation of the fetus. It

is poured in a template as pouring milk, then clots in the middle of this

template, as the clotting milk transformed into cheese. This has

nothing to do whatsoever with what scientists know about the stages

of the creation of the fetus.

Addressing Allah (S.W.), the Book of Job says, "Remember, I

beseech thee, that thou hast fashioned me as clay; And wilt

thou bring me into dust again? Hast thou not poured me

out as milk, And curdled me like cheese? Thou hast clothed

me with skin and flesh, And knit me together with bones

and sinews." (Job 10: 9 -11)

\- The Torah claims that the earth has pillars, has corners, and it is

flat, approving the scientific mainstream during the time of the writing.

It says, "The sun also arises, and the sun goes down, and

haste to its place where it arises." (Ecclesiastes 1: 5) The writer

did not know neither that the earth is spherical, nor that it spins on its

axis to create the sunrise and sunset.

The author of that verse was not Allah (S.W.) the Omniscient, who

says, "He created the heavens and the earth in true

(proportions): He makes the Night overlap the Day, and the Day

overlap the Night: He has subjected the sun and the moon (to

His law)" (Holy Quran, Surah 39, Az-Zumar – 5)

Describing Allah (S.W.), the Torah says that He is "That shaketh

the earth out of its place, And the pillars thereof tremble".

(Job 9: 6) The holy books' writers confirmed this misconception. They

claimed that Allah (S.W.) said to Job, "Where were you when I

put the earth on its base? Say, if you have knowledge. By

whom were its measures fixed? Say, if you have wisdom;

or by whom was the line stretched out over it? On what

were its pillars based, or who laid its corner-stone" (Job 38:

4-6), and the Book of Samuel says. "For the pillars of the earth

are Lord's, and he hath set the world upon them." (1Samuel

2: 8).

The New Testament confirms this naive and wrong perception of the

earth; it is flat, with pillars, and with four corners, in some verses,

which I will mention them in their place of this series.

Ecclesiastes speaks about the water cycle on earth and why the sea

would not be full, although much water is poured into it from rivers. It

mentions that the seawater goes back again to the springs of the

rivers, so the sea would not be full. It says, "All the rivers run

into the sea, yet the sea doth not overflow: unto the place

from whence the rivers come, they return, to flow again ".

(Ecclesiastes 1: 7)

Finally, the Torah ratifies that humans have the ability of bringing the

souls of the dead, and tells that this actually happened. The sorcerer

was able to bring Prophet Samuel's spirit to King Saul, and explained

the talk between them. (See1Samuel 28: 3-20) This is close to

witchcraft and myth more than anything else.

These errors and others testify that this book is not the word of Allah

(S.W.), if it is from Allah (S.W.) it would not contain these errors,

which today's young students know, let alone the scientists. The word

of Allah (S.W.) does not err, nor teach people lies or error.

Killing innocent human is a major sin in Islam & Islam is against terrorism. prophet Muhammad said no one has the right to burn anything only god has the right to burn someone which is in hell. Love peace for all. May god bless &save us all. Thomas Carlyle, struck by this philosophy of life writes "and then also Islam-that we must submit to God; that our whole strength lies in resigned submission to Him, whatsoever he does to us, the thing he sends to us, even if death and worse than death, shall be good, shall be best; we resign ourselves to God." The same author continues "If this be Islam, says Goethe, do we not all live in Islam?" Carlyle himself answers this question of Goethe and says "Yes, all of us that have any moral life, we all live so. This is yet the highest wisdom that heaven has revealed to our earth."

Evolution in the Holy Quran: It is mentioned in the quran 1400 years ago even before scientists found the genetic similarities of monkeys ,apes & humans. what scientists have found is true but their opinion of the theory of evolution is wrong. Quran is word of god & it has the information of past,present& future.God reveled to prophet Muhammad whatever god wanted to & kept some information only to god by reveling some & not reveling some.But still quran is 1 great source of information from God. Because of their constant defiance and blasphemy of GOD Almighty's Divine and Holy Words, some bad Jews were transformed into swines and apes during Prophet Moses (peace be upon him) times:but not the good one's & definitely not all jews okay.  
"Say: "Shall I point out to you something much worse than this, (as judged) by the treatment it received from God? those who incurred the curse of God and His wrath, those of whom some He transformed into apes and swine, those who worshipped evil;- these are (many times) worse in rank, and far more astray from the even path!" (The Noble Quran, 5:60)" First 2 of the 10 Commandments  
I am the Lord thy God,Thou shalt have no other gods before me.  
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven images.

SURAT AL IKHLAS (MAKKAH)

1) Say he is Allah one & only

(2) Allah, the eternal, absolute

3) He begets not, nor is he begotten

(4) And there is none like unto him (Al-Quran) The original quran is 100% accurate in the Arabic language & its 1 only.But in English there are couple of translations of the same 1 arabic quran.so if some 1 wants to understand the quran properly he should read it in couple of translations of the same 1 arabic quran & learn some Arabic to understand the quran more accurately.

Quran is not a copy of anything & there is no evidence to say such.statements in quran are against torah&bible.torah & bible has so many errors. & acording to sciense 80%of quran matches with sciense&other 20%of quran sciense doesn't have answers maybe it will take couple of hundred years to find out for sciense.acording to historians original bible doesn't exist anymore. Acording to islam torah&bible were books of allah but humans have destroyed their originality. so quran is the last &final word of god allah &Muhammad is the last&final messanger of allah. Quran is not copy of anything and its 100% word of god in islam. According to sciense torah &bibles statements have errors &Qurans statements are accurate &word of god is accurate.

Reasons why you should not blame religion for the acts of some people Can u blame Christianity for the acts of crusades, holocaust,& because some priests rapes children inside the churches or because some Christian leaders dropped a nuclear bomb on japan. Or they did these horrible acts like these: George W. Bush Jr. - Christian, Turned Iraq war into a religious war by saying "god told him to invade Iraq", increase taxes on the middle class and poor, cut taxes for the rich.

Nazism – Christians Adolph Hitler - Christian/Catholic Newt Gingrich – Christian Inquisitions - Christian Ugandan Christians Salem Witch burnings – Christian Waco Texas – Christian Jones Town - ChristianSan Diego Heaven's Gate – Christian Serbians – Christian Skin Heads – Christians IRA ( Irish Republican Army ) – Christian Iron Guard – Christian Westboro Baptist church – ChristiansChristian Tsarist Russia – Christian The Crusades - Christian & Catholic The Troubles - Catholic & Christian The Holocaust - Catholic & Christian The Book burnings - Catholic & Christian The heretic burnings – Christian Backing of the institution of slavery!!!!----

The answer is No no no and noooooo okay!!! its not the fault of Christianity but rather these are the faults of some bad people who did bad things & its as simple as that okay.Remember the good the bad the ugly exists in every thing or kind of people.Similarly blaming the religion islam for the acts of some few muslims who are evil terrorists is also wrong.Yes there are some bad bad bad people among muslims but again good people do good things & bad people do bad things.Im not denying or defending them because there are evil &good people among all religions & even atheists . It's as simple as that. 99% of muslims are not terrorists.&the bad muslims Or terrorists do not represent the true islam period. suppose some 1 has a very good expensive car or maybe it's the best car in the world.Now the owner starts driving the car he starts drinking & he hits women children & starts killing innocent people.Now is this is a fault of the car? No of course not it's the fault of the driver.over here im representing the driver as a bad muslim or u can say a terrorist & its not the cars fault that the driver misused it so here the expensive good car is islam.my point is don't blame Islam or Christianity or any other religion for the acts of some evil people. Remember the good the bad the ugly exists in every thing or kind of people.Islam is 1 of the most beautiful religion in the world but unfortunately its blamed for the actions of few evil terrorists.& also be aware that there are many rumors, lies & false information & accusations that exists in the western world & some European countries against islam & prophet mohammad.unfortunately some people believe in these false lies which has been spread by crusades, some media, some parts of governments & some bad rich anti Islam politicians to create misconceptions against islam & prophet mohammad only to stop spreading the truth about islam.

Philosopher, orator, apostle, legislator, warrior, conqueror of ideas, restorer of rational dogmas, of a cult without images; the founder of twenty terrestrial empires and of one spiritual empire, that is Muhammad. As regards all standards by which human greatness may be measured, we may well ask, is there any man greater than he?[Lamartine, Histoire de la Turquie, Paris 1854 Vol. II, pp. 276-77.]He was Caesar and Pope in one; but he was Pope without Popes pretensions, Caesar without the legions of Caesar: without a standing army, without a bodyguard, without a palace, without a fixed revenue; if ever any man had the right to say that he ruled by the right divine, it was Mohammad, for he had all the power without its instruments and without its supports.[Bosworth Smifu, Mohammad and Mohammadanism. London 1874, p. 92.] At Muhammad.s own death an attempt was made to deify him, but the man who was to become his administrative successor killed the hysteria with one of the noblest speeches in religious history: If there are any among you who worshipped Muhammad, he is dead. But if it is God you worshipped, He lives forever.[James A. Michener, Islam The Misunderstood Religion] And for atheists in the history the world wars didn't cause by religion.And good people do good things & bad people do bad things.The good the bad the ugly is part of human nature.

 The Piercing Star and Black holes

Top of Form

 Bottom of Form

The holy Quran is word of god. The Almighty revealed it to his final prophet to humanity. When prophets were inviting their people to the truth,

God endowed them with miracles to convince their people. Moses was given a miracle that excelled magic and dazzled magicians in ancient Egypt. Jesus was given a miracle that excelled medicine and he could cure people from incurable diseases. The only people who could see these miracles are the ones who were there. Because the prophet Muhammad was the final prophet his miracle had to be continuous and immortal, this immortal miracle is the holy Quran itself.At the age of revealing the holy Quran Arabs were excelled in poetry and prose, so the holy Quran challenged them by its eloquence. Now miracles of the holy Quran appeared in the scientific signs mentioned in a lot of verses, these verses indicate to scientific facts which have been discovered since only few decades, So humanity must know that the holy Quran is the word of Allah.One of the scientific signs mentioned in the holy Quran is the piercing star. (1) The Almighty says in the beginning of surat Al-Tarek: (By the heaven and the Tarik (The Knocker) * Ah, what will tell thee what the Tarik (The knocker) is! * The piercing Star!) (Quran 86:1-3)These verses speak about a star which has two significant features. The first one is that it is a piercing star the other is that it knocks something hard enough to make sound. Allah (SWT) in these verses coupled His oath by heaven regarding its greatness with the piercing star which means that there is a relationship between both. The question now is How do these verses indicate to black holes? Black holes are the most violent and mysterious phenomenon in the sky. Black holes are the evolutionary endpoints of stars at least 10 to 15 times as massive as the Sun. If a star that massive or larger undergoes a supernova explosion, it may leave behind a fairly massive burned out stellar remnant. With no outward forces to oppose gravitational forces, the remnant will collapse in on itself. The star eventually collapses to the point of zero volume and infinite density, creating what is known as a "singularity ". As the gravitational field is so powerful that nothing, including light, can escape its pull, the black hole has a one-way surface, called the event horizon, into which objects can fall, but out of which nothing can come out. At this we have to clarify very important point – which causes confusion to a lot of people- that we must distinguish between the event horizon of the black hole at which any matter or light can not escape and the point at which the matter of the exploded star is collapsed. If the sun become a black hole it will have an event horizon with radius about 3 km but all its matter will be condensed in a point at the center of the black hole.(General relativity describes a black hole as a region of empty space with a point like singularity at the center and an event horizon at the outer edge). (2)

 The piercing star describes the matter of star condensed in singularity and the hole of empty space caused by this condensed matter.

The verse indicates to the black hole The verse describes this phenomenon as the piercing star and this is more accurate description because the matter of the collapsed star which is condensed in singularity is the reason of forming the black hole. So the star itself still there condensed causing the existence of this empty space called black hole. When you describe this phenomenon as a black hole you actually are describing only the empty space but if you describe it the piercing star, then you are describing the matter of star condensed in singularity and the hole of empty space caused by this matter.Types of black holes There are two main types of black holes the first one is the stellar black holes and the second is actually the biggest and greatest phenomenon in the sky, it is the supermassive black holes. This confirms to us why the oath of the piercing star in the holy Quran is great enough to be coupled with the oath of heaven regarding its greatness.The properties of supermassive black holes The most significant feature of the supermassive black hole is its mass which exceed all limits of imagination if you know that the mass of stellar black holes can reach 30 times solar mass, the mass of a supermassive black hole can reach ten billion times solar mass. It is formed also as result of collapse of the matter of supermassive star at the beginning of formation of galaxies, so the piercing star which is condensed in a tiny volume causing this supermassive black hole is considered to be the most massive star in the universe. (3)The story begins with Quasars It has got along time for scientists to discover the supermassive black holes and the beginning was the discovery of quasars. The QUASi-stellAR radio source (quasar) is a powerfully energetic and distant active galactic nucleus. The most luminous quasars radiate at a rate that can exceed the output of average galaxies, equivalent to one trillion (1012) suns. Scientist for along time have wondered how does a quasar produce such tremendous luminosity despite its distance from us which reaches billions of light years and the answer came from the most violent thing in sky it is the supermassive black hole. The huge luminosity of quasars results from the accretion discs of central supermassive black holes, which can convert on the order of 10% of the mass of an object into energy as compared to 0.7% for the p-p chain nuclear fusion process that dominates the energy production in sun-like stars. (4)

 The huge luminosity of quasars results from the accretion discs of central supermassive black holes

The cosmic knocks resulted from supermassive black holes The mentioned verses (By the heaven and the Tarik (The Knocker) * Ah, what will tell thee what the Tarik (The knocker) is! * The piercing Star!) (Quran 86:1-3) stated that the piercing star which we explained its relation to supermassive black hole has another significant feature as the verses called it Al-Tarik (The knocker) so how does the piercing star and the resulted supermassive black hole knock?Part of the matter of accretion disk rotating supermassive black hole which is 81 about to fall in the supermassive black hole is re-emitted as Relativistic jets which are extremely powerful twin jets of plasma being shot along the axis of spin of the accretion disk having a velocity approaching the speed of light. This jet knocks hardly and strongly any thing in its way and for long distances.And due to the movement of this plasma jet it knocks the interstellar and the intergalactic medium producing real sound waves.

 A real jet of plasma produced by a supermassive black hole in the galaxy (M87) recorded by Hubel space telescope. It knocks every thing in its way for a distance (5000 light years).

In Sept. 9, 2003: Astronomers using NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory have found, for the first time, sound waves from a supermassive black hole. This supermassive black hole resides in the Perseus cluster of galaxies located 250 million light years from Earth. The "note" is the deepest ever detected from any object in our Universe. (5)

 Real sound waves resulted from jets knocking the intergalactic medium.Now imagine how great the miracle in the verses is. The piercing star and the resulted supermassive black hole knocks the intergalactic medium with relativistic jets and as result of this knocking real sound is produced.(By the heaven and the Tarik (The Knocker) * Ah, what will tell thee what the Tarik (The knocker) is! * The piercing Star!) (Quran 86:1-3) The piercing star and heaven Allah (SWT) in these verses coupled His oath by heaven regarding its greatness with the piercing star which means that there is a fundamental relationship between this type of stars and all what we see in the sky from stars and galaxies.The piercing star is in the core of all galaxies Quasar and related supermassive black holes have been associated to a type of galaxies called active galaxies, but the other type of galaxies called inactive galaxies which includes our galaxy the Milky way are thought for a long time to have no supermassive black holes in their cores, but from about two decades scientists have found a method to determine the existence of supermassive black hole by determining the velocities of stars close to the galactic nuclei and they were surprised when they found a supermassive black hole in all galaxies. What remained is to know is there a supermassive black hole in our galaxy the Milky way or not. In 2003 American astrophysicist Andrea Ghez and its teamwork (UCLA) and by using high spatial resolution imaging techniques have confirmed the existence of a supermassive black hole in our own galaxy. (6)The image is now complete each galaxy has its own supermassive black hole, but why there are active galaxies and inactive ones. The answer of this question related to the development of galaxies.

There is a supermassive black hole in each galaxy Supermassive black hole and the birth of galaxies Scientists have found a relationship between the velocity of stars at the edges of galaxies and the mass of the supermassive black holes in the core of these galaxies and because the distance between them are very large so this relation formed in a pervious time, the time of galaxy birth as it thought that the galaxies are formed when a huge cloud of gas is collapsed at its core forming supermassive black hole which start to feed on the neighboring gas forming a quasar. This quasar triggers the formation of new stars in the entire galaxy so a new active galaxy is formed, but with time the gas start to get far from the supermassive black hole so it has nothing to feed on and the active galaxy converts to inactive one.

So science today makes a relation between the piercing star and all what wee see in the sky from stars and galaxies. For this reason Allah (SWT) in these verses coupled His oath by heaven regarding its greatness with the piercing star which means that there is a fundamental relationship between this type of stars and all what we see in the sky from stars and galaxies.(By the heaven and the Tarik (The Knocker) * Ah, what will tell thee what the Tarik (The knocker) is! * The piercing Star!) (Quran 86:1-3)

References (1) Dr. Zagloul El-Naggar 2001. Al-Ahram 12, 14 (6, 20 /8 /2001). (2) http://www.physics.hku.hk/~nature/CD/regular_e/lectures/chap17.html (3) <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supermassive_black_hole> (4)  http://imagine.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/science/know_l1/active_galaxies.html (5)  http://science.nasa.gov/headlines/y2003/09sep_blackholesounds.htm (6) http://www.astro.ucla.edu/~ghezgroup/gc/index.shtml

Universe By: Chem. Gamal Abdel-Nasser

THE 7 EARTHS

Top of Form

Bottom of Form

The Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad is the second revealed source of Islam. Like the Quran, it contains scientific information unavailable 1400 years ago. From these miracles is the "seven" earths, mentioned by the Prophet in several of his sayings. From them are the following two:Hadith 1 It was narrated on the authority of Abu Salamah that a dispute arose between him and some other people (about a piece of land). When he told Aisha (the Prophet's wife) about it, she said, 'O Abu Salamah! Avoid taking the land unjustly, for the Prophet said:"Whoever usurps even one span of land of somebody, its depth through the seven earths will be collared to his neck." (Saheeh Al-Bukhari, 'Book of Oppression.')Hadith 2 Salim narrated on the authority of his father that the Prophet said:"Whoever takes a piece of land of others unjustly, he will sink down the seven earths on the Day of Resurrection." (Saheeh Al-Bukhari, 'Book of Oppression.')The aforementioned hadith prohibits oppression in general, especially the taking of a piece of land belonging to others unjustly. What might the seven earths refer to?Studies in geology have proven that the earth is composed of seven zones, identified from the inner to the outer layers as follows: (1) The Solid Inner Core of Earth: 1.7% of the Earth's mass; depth of 5,150 - 6,370 kilometers (3,219 - 3,981 miles) The inner core is solid and unattached to the mantle, suspended in the molten outer core. It is believed to have solidified as a result of pressure-freezing which occurs to most liquids when temperature decreases or pressure increases. (2) The Liquid Outer core: 30.8% of Earth's mass; depth of 2,890 - 5,150 kilometers (1,806 - 3,219 miles)The outer core is a hot, electrically conducting liquid within which convective motion occurs. This conductive layer combines with Earth's rotation to create a dynamo effect that maintains a system of electrical currents known as the Earth's magnetic field. It is also responsible for the subtle jerking of Earth's rotation. This layer is not as dense as pure molten iron, which indicates the presence of lighter elements. Scientists suspect that about 10% of the layer is composed of sulfur and/or oxygen because these elements are abundant in the cosmos and dissolve readily in molten iron.(3) The "D" Layer: 3% of Earth's mass; depth of 2,700 - 2,890 kilometers (1,688 - 1,806 miles) This layer is 200 to 300 kilometers (125 to 188 miles) thick and represents about 4% of the mantle-crust mass. Although it is often identified as part of the lower mantle, seismic discontinuities suggest the "D" layer might differ chemically from the lower mantle lying above it. Scientists theorize that the material either dissolved in the core, or was able to sink through the mantle but not into the core because of its density.

(4) Lower Mantle: 49.2% of Earth's mass; depth of 650 - 2,890 kilometers (406 -1,806 miles)

The lower mantle contains 72.9% of the mantle-crust mass and is probably composed mainly of silicon, magnesium, and oxygen. It probably also contains some iron, calcium, and aluminum. Scientists make these deductions by assuming the Earth has a similar abundance and proportion of cosmic elements as found in the Sun and primitive meteorites.

(5) Middle Mantle (Transition region): 7.5% of Earth's mass; depth of 400 - 650 kilometers (250-406 miles)

The transition region or mesosphere (for middle mantle), sometimes called the fertile layer, contains 11.1% of the mantle-crust mass and is the source of basaltic magmas. It also contains calcium, aluminum, and garnet, which is a complex aluminum-bearing silicate mineral. This layer is dense when cold because of the garnet. It is buoyant when hot because these minerals melt easily to form basalt which can then rise through the upper layers as magma.(6) Upper Mantle: 10.3% of Earth's mass; depth of 10 - 400 kilometers (6 - 250 miles)The upper mantle contains 15.3% of the mantle-crust mass. Fragments have been excavated for our observation by eroded mountain belts and volcanic eruptions. Olivine (Mg,Fe)2SiO4 and pyroxene (Mg,Fe)SiO3 have been the primary minerals found in this way. These and other minerals are refractory and crystalline at high temperatures; therefore, most settle out of rising magma, either forming new material or never leaving the mantle. Part of the upper mantle called the asthenosphere might be partially molten. (7) Lithosphere Oceanic crust: 0.099% of Earth's mass; depth of 0-10 kilometers (0 \- 6 miles) The rigid, outermost layer of the Earth comprising the crust and upper mantle is called the lithosphere. The oceanic crust contains 0.147% of the mantle-crust mass. The majority of the Earth's crust was made through volcanic activity. The oceanic ridge system, a 40,000-kilometer (25,000 mile) network of volcanoes, generates new oceanic crust at the rate of 17 km3 per year, covering the ocean floor with basalt. Hawaii and Iceland are two examples of the accumulation of basalt piles.

The continental crust contains 0.554% of the mantle-crust mass. This is the outer part of the Earth composed essentially of crystalline rocks. These are low-density buoyant minerals dominated mostly by quartz (SiO2) and feldspars (metal-poor silicates). The crust (both oceanic and continental) is the surface of the Earth; as such, it is the coldest part of our planet. Because cold rocks deform slowly, we refer to this rigid outer shell as the lithosphere (the rocky or strong layer).

Conclusion

The layers of the earth coincide with the above mentioned hadith of the Prophet. The miracle is in two matters:

(1) The expression of the hadith, 'He will sink down the seven earths on the Day of Resurrection,' indicates the stratification of these "earths" around one center.

(2) The accuracy with which the Prophet of Islam referred to the seven inner layers of earth. The only way for a desert dweller to have known these facts 1400 years ago is through revelation from God. References Beatty, J. K. and A. Chaikin, eds. The New Solar System. Massachusetts: Sky Publishing, 3rd Edition, 1990.Press, Frank and Raymond Siever. Earth. New York: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1986.Seeds, Michael A. Horizons. Belmont, California: Wadsworth, 1995.El-Najjar, Zaghloul. Treasures In The Sunnah: A Scientific Approach: Cairo, Al-Falah Foundation, 2004.Sunnah & Science By: admin

SURAT AL IKHLAS (MAKKAH)

1) Say he is Allah one & only

(2) Allah, the eternal, absolute

3) He begets not, nor is he begotten

(4) And there is none like unto him (Al-Quran)

PROPHET MUHAMMAD (pbuh) IN THE BIBLE  
by Dr. Zakir Naik

---

Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in the Old Testament:

The Qur'an mentions in Surah Al-Araf chapter 7 verse 157:

"Those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whom they find mentioned in their own (scriptures) in the law and the Gospel".

 | 1. MUHAMMAD (PBUH) PROPHESISED IN THE BOOK OF DEUTERONOMY:

---|---

 | Almighty God speaks to Moses in Book of Deuteronomy chapter 18 verse 18:

"I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee, and I will put my words in his mouth; and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him."

The Christians say that this prophecy refers to Jesus (pbuh) because Jesus (pbuh) was like Moses (pbuh). Moses (pbuh) was a Jew, as well as Jesus (pbuh) was a Jew. Moses (pbuh) was a Prophet and Jesus (pbuh) was also a Prophet If these two are the only criteria for this prophecy to be fulfilled, then all the Prophets of the Bible who came after  
Moses (pbuh) such as Solomon, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Malachi, John the Baptist, etc. (pbut) will   
fulfill this prophecy since all were Jews as well as prophets.

However, it is Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) who is like Moses (pbuh):

i) |   
Both had a father and a mother, while Jesus (pbuh) was born miraculously without any male intervention.

[Mathew 1:18 and Luke 1:35 and also Al-Qur'an 3:42-47]

---|---

ii) |   
Both were married and had children. Jesus (pbuh) according to the Bible did not marry nor had children.

iii) |   
Both died natural deaths. Jesus (pbuh) has been raised up alive. (4:157-158)

 |   
Muhammad (pbuh) is from among the brethren of Moses (pbuh). Arabs are brethren of Jews. Abraham (pbuh) had two sons: Ishmail and Isaac (pbut). The Arabs are the descendants of Ishmail (pbuh) and the Jews are the descendants of Isaac (pbuh).

Words in the mouth:

Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) was unlettered and whatever revelations he received

from Almighty God he repeated them verbatim.

"I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth; and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him."

[Deuteronomy 18:18]

---|---

iv) |   
Both besides being Prophets were also kings i.e. they could inflict capital punishment. Jesus (pbuh) said, "My kingdom is not of this world." (John 18:36).

---|---

v) |   
Both were accepted as Prophets by their people in their lifetime but Jesus (pbuh) was rejected by his  
people. John chapter 1 verse 11 states, "He came unto his own, but his own received him not."

iv) | Both brought new laws and new regulations for their people. Jesus (pbuh) according to the Bible did not bring any new laws. (Mathew 5:17-18).

---|---

112. Surah Al-Ikhlaas or At-Tauhid (The Purity)

1. Say (O Muhammad ( )): "He is Allah, (the) One.

2. "Allah-us-Samad (The Self-Sufficient Master, Whom all creatures need, He neither eats nor drinks).

3. "He begets not, nor was He begotten;

4. "And there is none co-equal or comparable unto Him." Quran

(according to historians original bible does not exist) search in google!!!

(The punishment of raping a women in islam is death penalty)!!!

if anyone killed a person not in retaliation of murder, or (and) to spread mischief in the land - it would be as if he killed all mankind, and if anyone saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of all mankind.Quran.

2. |   
It is Mentioned in the book of Deuteronomy chapter 18:19

---|---

 |   
"And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not harken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him."

3. |   
Muhammad (pbuh) is prophesised in the book of Isaiah:

 | It is mentioned in the book of Isaiah chapter 29 verse 12:

"And the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I am not learned."

When Archangel Gabrail commanded Muhammad (pbuh) by saying Iqra - "Read", he replied, "I am not learned".

4. |   
prophet Muhammad (pbuh) mentioned by name in the old testament:

 | Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is mentioned by name in the Song of Solomon chapter 5 verse 16:

prophet Muhammad (pbuh) mentioned by name in the old testament: Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is mentioned by name in the Song of Solomon chapter 5 verse 16:"Hikko Mamittakim we kullo Muhammadim Zehdoodeh wa Zehraee Bayna Jerusalem.""His mouth is most sweet: yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem."In the Hebrew language im is added for respect. Similarely im is added after the name of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) to make it Muhammadim. In English translation they have even translated the name of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) as "altogether lovely", but in the Old Testament in Hebrew, the name of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is yet present.It's majestic plural noun like Elohim which refers to 1 God only.so Muhammadim also refers to 1 Muhammad even though im can refer also to be plural.(Edited by Faisal)

Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in the New Testament:

Al-Qur'an Chapter 61 Verse 6:

"And remember, Jesus, the son of Mary, said, 'O Children of Israel! I am the messenger of Allah (sent) to you, confirming the Law (which came) before me and giving glad tidings of a messenger to come after me, whose name shall be Ahmed.' But when he came to them with clear signs, they said, 'This is evident sorcery!' "

All the prophecies mentioned in the Old Testament regarding Muhammad (pbuh) besides applying to the Jews also hold good for the Christians.

1. |

John chapter 14 verse 16:

---|---

 | "And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever."

2. |   
Gospel of John chapter 15 verse 26:

 |   
"But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit

of truth, which   
proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me."

3. |   
Gospel of John chapter 16 verse 7:

 |   
"Nevertheless I tell you the truth; it is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not  
come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you".

"Ahmed" or "Muhammad" meaning "the one who praises" or "the praised one" is almost the translation of the  
Greek word Periclytos. In the Gospel of John 14:16, 15:26, and 16:7. The word 'Comforter' is used in the English translation for the Greek word Paracletos which means advocate or a kind friend rather than a comforter.   
Paracletos is the warped reading for Periclytos. Jesus (pbuh) actually prophesised Ahmed by name. Even the  
Greek word Paraclete refers to the Prophet (pbuh) who is a mercy for all creatures.

Some Christians say that the Comforter mentioned in these prophecies refers to the Holy Sprit. They fail to realise  
that the prophecy clearly says that only if Jesus (pbuh) departs will the Comforter come. The Bible states that the  
Holy Spirit was already present on earth before and during the time of Jesus (pbuh), in the womb of Elizabeth, and again when Jesus (pbuh) was being baptised, etc. Hence this prophecy refers to none other than Prophet   
Muhammad (pbuh).

4. |   
Gospel of John chapter 16 verse 12-14:

 |   
"I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth is come, he will guide you unto all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come. He shall glorify me".

The Sprit of Truth, spoken about in this prophecy referes to none other than Prophet Muhammad (pbuh)

NOTE: All quotations of the Bible are taken from the King James Version.

Some hadiths (teachings of prophet Muhammad)( pbuh) Aisha reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, say, "Gabriel continued to advise me to treat neighbors well until I thought he would make them my heirs."Source: Sahih Muslim 2624 Grade: Sahih (authentic) according to Imam Muslim

Abu Musa reported: The Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "The honest Muslim trustee who carries out the orders of those who trusted him and who pays in full with a good heart to the right person is regarded as one of the two who gave charity." Source: Sahih Bukhari 1371, Sahih Muslim ...] Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "There is no justification for envy except in two cases. First, a man whom Allah has given the Quran and he recites it during the night and day, so someone says: If I were to be given like this, I would do as he is doing. And second, a man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it in justice, so someone says: If I were to be given like this, I would do as he is doing." Source: Sahih Bukhari 6805 Grade: [ Sahih (authentic) according to Al-Bukhari

 Hadith on Zakat: The command to give 2.5% of surplus wealth as alms and charity

Abu Amina Elias | April 5, 2013 Ali ibn Abu Talib reported: The Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "If you have two hundred coins and a year has passed, then five coins is due for alms; and you will owe nothing until you own twenty coins, but when you own twenty coins and a year has passed, then half of a coin is due for alms and whatever exceeds that should be calculated likewise."Source: Sunan Abu Dawud 1572Grade: Hasan (fair) according to Abu Dawud (due to his silence) Abu Dharr reported: My dear friend the Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, enjoined upon me three deeds, "Listen to and obey the ruler even if a slave is appointed over you. When you make soup, put some extra water in it and look to the people in the neighboring house and give them a reasonable portion of it, and pray your prayers on time, for if you find the Imam praying then pray with him and your prayer will be safeguarded, otherwise it will be voluntary for you."Source: Musnad Ahmad 20918 Grade: Sahih (authentic) according to Al-Albani

Juwairiya reported: The Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, came out from her apartment as she was performing the dawn prayer. He returned in the forenoon and found her sitting there. The Prophet said, "Are you in the same position as I left you?" She said yes. The Prophet said, "I recited four words three times after I left you. If these are to be weighed against all you have recited since the morning, these words will be heavier. They are: Glory and praise to Allah as many as the numbers of His creation, in according with His pleasure, as the weight of the Throne, and as the ink for recording His words."Source: Sahih Muslim 2726 Grade: Sahih (authentic) according to Imam Muslim

Ubadah ibn As-Samit reported: We pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, pledging to listen and obey in hardship and in ease, in pleasure and displeasure even if someone is wrongly favored over us, and pledging not to dispute the rule of

those in authority and that we should speak the truth wherever we are and not to fear those who blame us regarding Allah.Source: Sahih Muslim 1709 Grade: Sahih (authentic) according to Imam Muslim

Al-Qurtubi reported: Some scholars gave permission to initiate greetings of peace with the unbelievers. It was said to Sufyan bin Uyainah, "Do you give permission to greet an unbeliever with peace?" Sufyan said, "Yes, for Allah the Exalted said: Allah does not forbid you from those who do not fight you in religion nor expel you from your homes that you be righteous and fair to them. Verily, Allah loves those who are just." (60:8) Sufyan added, "Allah said: There has come to you the best example in Abraham, (60:4) and Abraham said to his father: Peace be upon you." (19:47)Source: Tafseer Al-Qurtubi, verse 19:41

Abdullah ibn Mas'ud reported: He stood upon a platform and he grabbed his tongue and he said, "O tongue! Speak goodness and be rewarded, or remain silent and be safe before you are regretful." Then he said: I heard the Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, say, "Most of the sins of the children of Adam are on their tongues."[At-Tabarani, Mu'jam Al-Kabeer, Number 10300, Sahih]

Anas ibn Malik reported: The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said three times, "May Allah have mercy on a person who spoke rightly and was rewarded, or who was silent and remained safe."Source: Shu'b Al-Iman Al-Bayhaqi 4579

Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "The basis of reasoning, after faith in Allah, is loving kindness toward the people."Source: At-Tabarani, Al-Mu'jam Al-Awsat, Number 6067

Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him not harm his neighbor. Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him honor his guest. Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him speak goodness or remain silent."Source: Sahih Muslim 47

Ibn Mas'ud reported: The Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "During the night journey, I met with Abraham, Moses, and Jesus and they were discussing the matter of the Hour. Their matter was referred to Abraham, who said, "I have no knowledge about it." So the matter was referred to Moses, who said, "I have no knowledge about it." So the matter was referred to Jesus, who said, "As for the conditions of the Hour, no one knows them but Allah. My Lord the Exalted has entrusted me that the False Messiah will appear and I will have with me two rods. When he sees me, he will melt away just as lead is melted in fire. Allah will destroy him to the point that the rock and the tree will say: O Muslims, beneath me is an unbeliever, so come slay him. Thus, Allah will destroy them and the people will return to their lands and their countries. When that happens, the nations of Gog and Magog will appear, eating and drinking everything in their lands. They will not come upon anything but that they will devour it and they will not pass by any water but that they will consume it. The people will complain to me about them, so I will supplicate to Allah and He will destroy them until their stench fills the earth. Then Allah will send rain which will wash their bodies into the sea. My Lord the Exalted has entrusted me that when all of this happens, the Hour is indeed near just as a women is ready to give birth; her family does not know when she will give birth but it could be any day or night."[Musnad Ahmad, Number 3546, Sahih]

Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, "By Allah, the son of Mary will descend as a just ruler. He will abolish the cross, kill the swine, and annul the tribute, but he will leave the she-camel such that no one collects from it. He will cause rancor, hatred, and envy to disappear, and he will call people to give their wealth in charity but no one will need it."Source: Sahih Muslim 155

Prophet said, "By Allah, you must enjoin good and forbid evil and seize the hand of the oppressor and make him follow the truth and restrict him to what is just."Source: Sunan Abu Dawud 4336

"God is Kind and likes kindness in all things."Reporter: Hadhrat Ayeshah (r) Source: Bukhari/Muslim (reported in Riyadhus Saleheen,#633); Sunan Ibn Majah, #3684 The people will be resurrected  
(and judged) according to their intentions."Reporter: Hadhrat Aishah (r) Source: Sahih al-Bukhari, Vol. 3, Book of Fasting, Chapter 6, p. 69

"The best among you are those  
who have the best manners and character.""Reporter: Hadhrat Abdullah ibn Amr (r) Source: Sahih al-Bukhari, Vol. 8: #56b

"A person who goes in search of knowledge, he is in the path of God and he remains so till he returns."Reporter: Hadhrat Anas (r) Source: Sunan at-Tirmizi, Vol. 4, #2656

"Hell lies hidden behind evil (worldly desires) and paradise is screened behind hard labor."Reporter: Hadhrat Abu Hurairah (r) Source: Sahih al-Bukhari, Vol. 8, #494

"Paradise is closer to you than your shoelace, and so is the (Hell) Fire."Reporter: Hadhrat Ibn Mas'ud Source: Sahih al-Bukhari, Vol. 8, #495

"The world is prison for the believers and paradise for the disbelievers."Reporter: Hadhrat Abu Hurairah (r) Source: Sahih Muslim, Vol. 4, #7058

"To spend one morning or evening in the cause of God is better than the world and whatever is in the world."Reporter: Hadhrat Anas bin Malik Source: Sahih al-Bukhari, Vol. 4, #50

Surah Al-Baqarah is the longest surah of the Quran and the prophet (s.a.w.) highlighted many of its benefits in general and some of its specific benefits. For example, the prophet (s.a.w.) told us that its recitation in a house keeps the Satan away. Abu Hurayrah reports that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w.) said: "Do not make your houses like graves, for the Shaytan runs away from a house in which Surat al-Baqarah is recited" (narrated by Muslim, 780). As most of the spiritual ailments such as evil eye, jinn possession, and black magic are satanic in nature, keeping Satan away can also help both in the treatment of such conditions and as a preventive measure.

The Blessings of Aayat al-Kursiy

Ayat-ul-Kursi is verse 255 of Surah Al-Bqarah and is related to Allah's throne. This Quranic verse has many blessings and is used for ruqyah treatment, the treatment of evil eye, black magic, and also for general and comprehensive protection.

The blessings of this verse is apparent from this hadith narrated by Abu Hurayrah. He said:

The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w.) put me in charge of guarding the zakaah of Ramadaan. Someone came to me and started grabbing (taking illegally) handful of the food. I took hold of him and said, 'I will take you to the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w.).' He said, 'I will teach you some words by means of which Allah will benefit you.' I said, 'What are they?' He said, 'When you go to your bed, recite this aayah: "Allah! Laa ilaaha illa Huwa (none has the right to be worshipped but He), Al-Hayyul-Qayyoom (the Ever Living, the One Who sustains and protects all that exists)..." [Surah al-Baqarah, 2:255]. Then Allah will appoint a guard for you who will stay with you and no Shaytan (devil) will come near you until morning.' The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w.) asked me, 'What did your prisoner do last night?' I said, 'O Messenger of Allah, he taught me something, and claimed that Allah would benefit me by it.' He said, 'What was it?' I said, 'He taught me to recite Aayat al-Kursiy when I go to bed, and said that no Shaytan would come near me until morning, and that Allah would appoint a guard for me who would stay with me.' The prophet (s.a.w.) said, 'He told you the truth, although he is an inveterate liar. That was the Shaytan' [narrated by al-Bukhaari, 3101; Muslim, 505].

The Blessings of Last Verses of Surah Al-Baqarah

The last verses of Surah Al-Baqarah are one of the most memorized and recited Quranic verses among Muslims and that is for a good reason. Consider the saying of the prophet (s.a.w.) about the last verses of the Surah.

"Whoever recites the last two verses of Surat al-Baqarah at night, it will suffice him'" (According to Abu Masood al-Ansaari and narrated by al-Bukhaari, 4723; Muslim, 807).

The Prophet (s.a.w.) also said the following:

"Allah inscribed a book two thousand years before He created the heavens and the earth, from which the last two verses of Surat al-Baqarah were revealed. If they are recited for three nights, no Shaytan (devil) will remain in the house) (narrated by al-Tirmidhi, 2882).This hadeeth was classed as saheeh by al-Albaani in Saheeh al-Jaami' (1799).

285. The Messenger (Muhammad) believes in what has been sent down to him from his Lord, and (so do) the believers. Each one believes in Allah, His Angels, His Books, and His Messengers. (They say), "We make no distinction between one another of His Messengers" – and they say, "We hear, and we obey. (We seek) Your Forgiveness, our Lord, and to You is the return (of all)."

286. Allah burdens not a person beyond his scope. He gets reward for that (good) which he has earned, and he is punished for that (evil) which he has earned. "Our Lord! Punish us not if we forget or fall into error, our Lord! Lay not on us a burden like that which You did lay on those before us (Jews and Christians); our Lord! Put not on us a burden greater than we have strength to bear. Pardon us and grant us Forgiveness. Have mercy on us. You are our Maula (Patron, Supporter and Protector, etc.) and give us victory over the disbelieving people." Quran, Surah Al-Baqarah (185:186)

"Allah sends His Salaah (Graces, Blessings, Mercy) on the Prophet (Muhammad), and also His angels (Angels ask Allah to bless and forgive him). O you who believe! send your Salah on (ask Allaah to bless) him (Muhammad), and greet him with the Islamic way of greeting (salutation, i.e. As?Salaamu 'Alaykum)" [Quran: al-Ahzaab 33:56]

Sending blessings on the prophet is so vital that in one of the hadeeth, acceptance of our Dua is made dependant on it. According to a hadith by 'Umar ibn al-Khattaab (may Allah be pleased with him) who said:

Dua is suspended between heaven and earth and none of it is taken up until you send blessings upon your Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him)." (Classed as hasan by al-Albaani in Saheeh al-Tirmidhi).

Sending blessings mean to read or say Darood Ibrahim :

ALLAHUMMA SALLI ALA MUHAMMADIW WA ALA AALI MUHAMMADIN KAMAA SALLAITA ALA IBRAHIMA WA ALA AALI IBRAHIMA INNAKA HAMIDUM MAJID. ALLAHUMMA BAARIK ALA MUHAMMADIW WA ALA AALI MUHAMMADIN KAMAA BAARAKTA ALA IBRAHIMA WA ALA AALI IBRAHIMA INNAKA HAMIDUM MAJID.

Allahumma! Send blessings upon (Holy Prophet) Muhammad and upon the followers of (Holy Prophet) Muhammad as You sent blessings upon Ibraheem and upon the followers of Ibraheem; indeed, You are praiseworthy and glorious. Allahumma! Bless (Holy Prophet) Muhammad and the follower of (Holy Prophet) Muhammad as You blessed Ibraheem and the follower of Ibraheem; indeed, You are praise worthy and glorious.

Note :

The famous companion of the Prophet (Sallal Laahu Alaihi Wasallim), Hazrat Ka'ab bin Ujrah (radi Allahu anhu), narrates that once it was enquired from Sayyiduna Rasoolullah (Sallal Laahu Alaihi Wasallim) as to how blessings should be sent to him. The Prophet (Sallal Laahu Alaihi Wasallim) replied that the blessings be said in the manner (it has been mentioned) above, that is, Durood-e-Ibrahimi.

Best Times to make Dua (Supplication) While Prostrating  
Abu Hurairah (RA) narrated that Allah's Messenger (SAW), said: 'The nearest a slave can be to his Lord is when he is prostrating, so invoke (supplicate) Allah (SWT) much in it. [Muslim, abu Dawud, an-Nasa'i and others, Sahih al-Jami #1175]

When a Muslim is in his Salat (prayer) he is facing Allah (SWT) and when he prostrates he is the nearest he can be to Allah (SWT) so it is best to invoke Allah (SWT) at this time.

The Last Third Of The Night   
Abu Hurairah (RA) narrated that Allah's Messenger (SAW) said: 'In the last third of every night our Rabb (Cherisher and Sustainer) (Allah (SWT)) descends to the lowermost heaven and says; "Who is calling Me, so that I may answer him? Who is asking Me so that may I grant him? Who is seeking forgiveness from Me so that I may forgive him?."' [Sahih al-Bukhari, Hadith Qudsi]

Amr ibn Absah narrated that the Prophet said: 'The closest any worshipper can be to His Lord is during the last part of the night, so if you can be amongst those who remember Allah at that time, then do so.'[at-Tirmidhi, an-Nasa'i, al-Hakim - Sahih]

The Night Of 'Qadr' (Decree)  
This night is the greatest night of the year. This is the night which the almighty Allah (SWT) said about it, "The night of Al-Qadar (Decree) is better than a thousand months." [Surah al-Qadr, 97: 3]

The Night of Decree is one of the odd nights of the last ten nights of the blessed month of Ramadan. The angels descend down to the earth, and the earth is overwhelmed with peace and serenity until the break of dawn and when he doors of Paradise are opened, the worshipper is encouraged to turn to Allah to ask for his needs for this world and the Hereafter.

BY MR.FAISAL FAHIM: The most recommended book of MR.FAISAL IS ("The Bible, the Qu'ran and Science: The Holy Scriptures Examined in the Light of Modern Knowledge: 4 books in 1") Authored by Mr. Faisal Fahim, Dr. Maurice Bucaille, Dr. Zakir Naik.

AND IT'S AVAILABLE ON AMAZON, www.createspace.com

### The benefits of Salah the prayer performed in the Islamic way. This book describes both the worldly and spiritual benefits of Salah/salat/namaz.

### The benefits of Salah the prayer performed in the Islamic way.

The benefits of Salah/salat/prayer performed in Islamic way. There are many benefits of Salah. There are 3 categories of the benefits of performing the Salah/salat/prayer/namaz. 1st is the physical benefits because it's like exercising such as causing movements in the human body during performing the prayer or Salah in Islam. 2nd is the spiritual and mental wellbeing that connects with performing the Islamic prayer/Salah/salat/namaz. When a Muslim bows his head to god on the floor, this increases the blood flow in the brain and it's done in a short period of time and it's temporary so it's good for the brain and mental health. Research shows praying the Islamic Salah can help mental wellbeing. 3rd is it connects with god spiritually which gives Muslims unlimited sawabs and rewards which will help a Muslim enter jannah/heaven in akhirat/here after which is the final life after death and its forever. So Salah can keep a person both mentally and physically fit as well as it will also help believers enter heaven because Muslims are fulfilling the commands of Allah and the purpose of life by worshiping & praying the mandatory the must pray the Salah's 5times a day by saying some verses of the holy Quran, remembering and connecting with the only true 1 god Allah the creator of all and everything.

### 1 of the most recommended books of Mr.Faisal Fahim

THE BIBLE THE QURAN AND SCIENCE THE HOLY SCRIPTURES EXAMINED IN THE LIGHT OF MODERN KNOWLEDGE: A SUMMERY WITH MORE NEW INFORMATION

### And it is available on amazon and most online book stores/sellers

God is only 1 who is for forever and there is no other god but Allah, there was no other god but Allah & there will be no other god but Allah and since god is 1 so god's religion is also 1. the message of god and Islam is always the same that there is only 1 god who has no partners no beginning nor end but god is for forever and Moses Jesus Muhammad are only prophets messengers of the same 1 god & the message is same that god is 1 without any partners like no father mother son daughter etc. God is most superior beyond our imagination & there is nothing comparable to god. science and history proves torah & bibles are changed corrupted .so god Allah sent the last revelation the Quran through angel Gabriel to last prophet Muhammad and since all other revelations have changed by humanity, Allah promised to keep the Quran same until the end times. False religions lead to hell but Islam is only way to heaven. So there isn't and will not be another god besides Allah & Moses Jesus Muhammad are only prophets messengers of Allah and Islam the only true religion. So Allah & Allah's religion Islam are for forever. This is the truth and this is Islam. Thank you for reading.

75. THE RESURRECTION

A Meccan sura, dealing with the Day of Resurrection and man's denial of that

Day. God's power is convincingly described in several vignettes (verses 3–4,

26–30, 34–40). The third paragraph instructs the Prophet on appropriate

reception of the revelation (verses 16–19), and thereby serves to emphasize

that the Qur_an is indeed God's word.

In the name of God, the Lord of Mercy, the Giver of Mercy

1Bya the Day of Resurrection 2 and by the self-reproaching soul!

3Does man think We shall not put his bones back together?

4 In fact, We can reshape his very fingertips. 5Yet man wants to

deny what is ahead of him: 6 he says, 'So, when will this Day of

Resurrection be?'

7When eyes are dazzled 8 and the moon eclipsed, 9 when the sun

and the moon are brought together, 10 on that Day man will say,

'Where can I escape?' 11Truly, there is no refuge: 12 they will all

return to your Lord on that Day. 13 On that Day, man will be told

what he put first and what he put last. 14Truly, man is a clear witness

against himself, 15 despite all the excuses he may put forward.

16 [Prophet], do not rush your tongue in an attempt to hasten

[your memorization of] the Revelation: 17We shall make sure of its

safe collection and recitation. 18When We have recited it, repeat the

recitation 19and We shall make it clear.

20Truly you [people] love this fleeting world 21 and neglect the life

to come. 22 On that Day there will be radiant faces, 23 looking towards

their Lord, 24 and on that Day there will be the sad and despairing

faces 25 of those who realize that a great calamity is about to befall

them.

26Truly, when the soul reaches the collarbone; 27 when it is said,

'Could any charm-healer save him now?'; 28 when he knows it is the

final parting; 29 when his legs are brought together:b 30 on that day he

will be driven towards your Lord. 31 He neither believed nor prayed,

a This is preceded by a phrase which can be rendered either 'I swear' or 'I do not

swear' (i.e. there is no need for me to swear), depending on how la is read.

b This is taken to refer to when a corpse is wrapped in the shroud.

32but denied the truth and turned away, 33 walking back to his people

with a conceited swagger.

34 Closer and closer it comes to you. 35 Closer and closer still.

36 Does man think he will be left alone?a 37Was he not just a drop of

spilt-out sperm, 38 which became a clinging form, which God shaped

in due proportion, 39 fashioning from it the two sexes, male and

female? 40 Does He who can do this not have the power to bring the

dead back to life?

a And not taken to account.

The Qur_an 75: 32

76. MANa

A Medinan sura that speaks of how man is tested (verses 2–3) and what the

results will be for the evildoers (verse 4) and for the righteous (verses 5–22).

The Prophet is urged to persevere in his devotion and to bear with patience

(verses 23–6).

In the name of God, the Lord of Mercy, the Giver of Mercy

1Was there not a period of time when man was nothing to speak of ?b

2We created man from a drop of mingled fluid to put him to the test;

We gave him hearing and sight; 3We guided him to the right path,

whether he was grateful or not.

4We have prepared chains, iron collars, and blazing Fire for the

disbelievers, but 5 the righteous will have a drink mixed with kafur,c

6 a spring for God's servants, which flows abundantly at their wish.

7 They fulfil their vows; they fear a day of widespread woes; 8 they

give food to the poor, the orphan, and the captive, though they love

it themselves, 9 saying, 'We feed you for the sake of God alone: We

seek neither recompense nor thanks from you. 10We fear the Day of

our Lord––a woefully grim Day.' 11 So God will save them from the

woes of that Day, give them radiance and gladness, 12 and reward

them, for their steadfastness, with a Garden and silken robes.

13 They will sit on couches, feeling neither scorching heat nor biting

cold, 14 with shady [branches] spread above them and clusters of

fruit hanging close at hand. 15 They will be served with silver plates

16 and gleaming silver goblets according to their fancy, 17 and they

will be given a drink infused with ginger 18 from a spring called

Salsabil. 19Everlasting youths will attend them––if you could see

them, you would think they were scattered pearls––20 and if you

were to look around, you would see bliss and great wealth: 21 they

will wear garments of green silk and brocade; they will be adorned

with silver bracelets; their Lord will give them a pure drink.

a See footnote g, Sura 89.

b Literally 'Has there not come over man a period of time when he was not mentioned?'

This refers to the time before a person is born, the point being that he was

nothing, then God created him, just as He will bring him to life again for Judgement.

c A fragrant herb.

22 [It will be said], 'This is your reward. Your endeavours are

appreciated.'

23We Ourself have sent down this Qur_an to you [Prophet] in

gradual revelation. 24Await your Lord's Judgement with patience; do

not yield to any of these sinners or disbelievers; 25 remember the

name of your Lord at dawn and in the evening; 26 bow down before

Him, and glorify Him at length by night.

27 These people love the fleeting life. They put aside [all thoughts

of] a Heavy Day. 28Yet We created them; We strengthened their

constitution; if We please, We can replace such people completely.

29 This is a reminder. Let whoever wishes, take the way to his Lord.

30 But you will only wish to do so if God wills– God is all knowing,

all wise– 31 He admits whoever He will into His Mercy and has

prepared a painful torment for the disbelievers.

This book is a dictionary of all Abrahamic religions. Please share the book and the knowledge of the book. If you read this book please pray for me to Allah to give me the best Jannah/heaven.Thank you and may Allah give you best Jannah/heaven too. Ameen.

Make AnonymousSincerely, Delete Question(Faisal Fahim)

Jazakum Allahu Khayran for reading.
