 
The Legend of Brandice May

Kevin Pearson

Text copyright 2013-2019 Kevin Pearson

All Rights Reserved. Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. If you enjoyed this book, please return to www.smashwords.com to discover other works by this author. Thank you for your support.

Acknowledgments

Many thanks to Katarzyna for her lifelike cover picture of the evil Brandice May. To get in touch with Katarzyna regarding possible art projects, please contact her directly via email.

Katarzyna Waszewska-Adamowska

Email: pracownia.labarte@gmail.com

For dreamers who yearn for wild adventure!

Table of Contents

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14

Chapter 15

Chapter 16

Chapter 17

Chapter 1

10 year old Lawrence perched on top Rooksbridge museum, nervously peering over the rainy deserted street far below. Only owl's cautious hoots disturbed the haunting silence. The dull moon floating above nearby woods was still only half full again, but Lawrence had a more important job tonight. The target would be sitting at the Egyptian exhibit on the third floor at exactly nine thirty.

A small polished mirror dangling on a fishing line showed the security guard was right on time. Lawrence would let him pass once more before entering the building.

Lawrence was so intent on his work he didn't care about tiny raindrops sliding down his balaclava and clinging to his neck, nor sweat pooling in his climbing boots. The back of the guard's uniform reflected in the mirror again. Now, he had four minutes! Slipping through the old, creaky window was so easy, he didn't see two red eyes watching from the shadowy, crumbling building opposite.

Only safe access to lower floors were small heating ducts - perfect for a sneaky boy whose knees pads kept his work silent. Very soon Lawrence dropped into dark toilets, leaping into the next vent system leading to the far end of the third floor. Less than two minutes had passed.

Below the third floor vent sat a beautiful cat whose sparkling green eyes were fixed on a scratching behind a towering sarcophagus. Dangling from long rope over the hard marble floor, Lawrence scooped the cat up into his knapsack. The surprised cat barely had time to murmur before they were both back in the vent and sliding along one upstairs.

Back near the entry point, Lawrence silently slipped down a totem pole as the guard looked at suspicious water spots dotting the dusty floor. Lawrence melted into shadows behind a giant bear whose enormous teeth glinted horribly in the eerie moonlight. Drat! If the man lingered longer a younger guard would join him. If Lawrence was caught his plans would be shattered, all hope lost.

Just then the old man's phone rang and he strolled downstairs. Lawrence bolted for the window, squeezing through, scrambling up the drainpipe onto the roof. It was raining harder now and the place began flooding. A rusty old pipe had burst - another variable he hadn't counted on.

Lawrence slid over water and flew down the slippery fire escape. Grabbing his bike from bushes he took quiet back routes home. When Lawrence shot through his door, mum smiled. "School tomorrow, don't stay up too late!"

"See you soon mum," he said, rushing to his cellar lab, setting the puzzled cat on the examination table. Contented purrs filled the room as she nuzzled the soft material. Lawrence felt that terrible sinking, frustrated feeling again. It wasn't Lucy! But he still needed clues, so performed the normal tests.

Some people didn't know cats could change appearance and colour as they grew older, though this friendly girl may still answer some questions. If not, she'd still get a good feed. Although most cats Lawrence borrowed were healthy, some folk simply didn't have the knowledge. Lack of responsibility dad used to call it.

Tonight had been Lawrence's twelfth cat heist. He felt proud of the night when he managed to capture two cats at the same time. But success had also brought cuts, scrapes and rope burns, not to mention the nagging fact that he still hadn't found young Lucy.

Lawrence had trained hard for the past year. He could hang for twenty minutes from monkey bars - very useful while waiting for an unexpected guest to leave a room. Now an expert rope climber, he could also tip toe along tiny ledges. And unlike noisy getaway cars, his mountain bike could easily slip by authorities.

Lawrence's father had been an excellent vet whom he'd learnt much from. Lawrence checked the cat's health and placed it under ultra violet light. Aha! There it was again! A small luminous speck nestled on the tip of her tail - a rare glowing fungus growing in wet, marshland, far away from choking dust and urban grime. Lawrence's friend, Mr Davis, had confirmed the fungus species, though didn't know where the nearest source lay, which only added to the mystery. Something very strange was going on with cats round here. Sadly, they couldn't say exactly what just yet.

Lawrence fed the cat, then let her out the small window onto the back garden, where she meowed sadly. Cats often didn't want to leave, but as much as he cared, he couldn't allow it. For when Lucy returned, would she feel jealous that he'd replaced her so easily?

Lawrence tidied up, thinking back through small scraps of evidence found so far. It had been almost midnight last Halloween. Lawrence was just about to go to bed when he noticed Lucy's empty basket. He knew she always came in before it got too dark, so gazed out the window into the woods, expecting to see her happily padding up the garden path.

Instead he saw a strange green light glowing through trees, feeling a buzzing flowing through air that made hair stand up and the bedroom light explode. The television fizzed on loudly downstairs and the house became very hot. Farther out in the forest, lights turned blue and flashed hypnotically, then the sickening smell of burning manure wafted through the window.

For a second those weird lights burned as bright as the sun. Somewhere in bushes Lucy yowled in surprise. Lawrence bravely plunged into the deep darkness to help his friend. At the bottom of the garden where wild grass met towering trees, he tripped over a log. All went dark. When he woke lights had gone, air had cleared, the moon hung high in the sky and Lucy was nowhere to be seen. It was now 1:30 am.

That awful night Lawrence lay awake, anxiously wondering what may have happened to poor Lucy. As soon as dawn broke he rushed back down there, finding flattened grass swirled in strange circles, broken trees branches singed high up and a speck of bright yellow slime sheltered beneath a suspicious stick pile.

Mum said Lucy probably wandered off on an adventure and got lost. But mum hadn't been there. Lawrence had seen it all, so knew better.

Next day he'd told the biology teacher, Mr Davis all about it. A kind, friendly man, doubling as the school councillor, he was always impressed by kids' vivid imaginations. Mr Davis had been one of dad's best friends.

Mr Davis knew a very clever professor currently travelling in remote regions abroad. As soon as he could contact him, he'd find out exactly where this weird yellow fungus grew. Until then they kept hoping Lucy might turn up safe and well.

But that was nearly one year ago. Ever since Lawrence had tried his best to find out more. More about the lights, more about the burning, and more about the strange glowing fungus.

Mum said lots of cats had gone missing recently. Trying to find out why, how and who would steal them occupied most of Lawrence's time. Sadly neither he nor Mr Davis had put the clues together just yet.

Sometimes, late at night when the moon threw strange shadows across the garden and a weird wind whistled through trees farther out, Lawrence thought he heard Lucy mewing for him. Once he awoke breathless, thinking she'd playfully jumped on his chest. And once he glimpsed a tiny black shadow flitting across the back lawn, but it dissolved in the light.

Chapter 2

At school next morning, smiling Mr Davis had found out the mysterious fungus grew about six miles away in the local forest. Lawrence raced down there that afternoon, fighting through thickly bunched trees and high grass. He finally pushed through an army of thorny brambles, tumbling into a secret clearing, where a beautiful little cottage bathed in deep orange sunlight. Wispy smoky clouds swum amongst the thatched roof. Tiny colourful plants were dotted between lush grass, protected by a knee high fence.

Lawrence was so surprised he simply stood and stared. Only a heavy thud from the cottage broke the enchanting spell and he scrambled up the nearest tree. He carefully peered through dense branches, breathing heavily as a young black cat trotted down the cobbled garden path. The little strip of white fur running down her chest had grown with her, but it was Lucy alright!

"Lucy, dinner!" Lawrence whispered. But Lucy just sat at the gate, gazing up at him sadly. A little branch dropped near the fence, burning to cinders on a bright dome of energy that sprang up round the property.

Suddenly ground beyond the cottage lay black and dying. No animals could be heard for miles. Plants inside the fence wilted, showing a glowing yellow fungus growing fiercely beneath them. And the wispy clouds changed to dark, twisted shadows whose evil red eyes glowed hatefully.

Cats wailed pitifully and a beautiful girl strolled out the cottage. Bright, golden hair showered the doorway in healing light and her glowing smile brought tiny flowers springing from rich soil.

Lawrence gasped and she spotted him. Now the doorway grew black and flowers turned to ash. Instantly the girl morphed into a hideous old crone, muttering strange words. Invisible forces ripped Lawrence off the branch to the ground.

Lawrence lay winded, unable to move or breathe while the hag cackled insanely, drawing weird flashing symbols in smoky air. A stinking burning smell fizzed through the clearing as Lawrence struggled to his feet, staggering off through woods.

Cruel winds tore at his heels, pushing him into branches that viciously slapped him again and again. Lawrence ran faster and faster to outrun the deafening laughter, dodging falling logs and splashing through hidden ditches.

The furious wind died when he cleared the woods, but the crazy screeching voice still echoed through treetops.

Back home Lawrence thought it time to tell mum and the police of the stolen cats. Mum listened carefully, then asked a retired detective to check the place out.

Two hours later the man phoned mum, reporting there was no cottage, no witch and no cats. He did find a very old set of moulding stones which may once have been a building, set amongst thick brambles and rotting undergrowth. He also discovered where Lawrence had fallen out of a high tree. No wonder the boy had come back telling such an odd tale.

Now mum thought Lawrence had fainted, fallen and dreamt the story. So she sent him straight to bed, fussing over him, till certain there was no lasting damage.

The spare time didn't help Lawrence plan his next move because much of it was taken up by naughty relatives teasing him about the magical invisible cottage, saying he'd read far too many fairy stories. And nice dreams were swept away by shaky, shadowy visions of the strange cottage, the even stranger evil old crone, her black servants and her terrible temper. But most of all frustrated Lawrence saw poor Lucy longingly gazing out on the real world.

On Saturday morning mum let Lawrence leave his room and he ran back to the secret cottage. It was glowing in the midday sun and as beautiful as ever. Lucy sat at the gate waiting for rescue. Lawrence didn't dare get too close, spending the afternoon scouting for a weak point. Yet the nasty, thieving crone never left the cottage and the place lay quiet. Poor Lawrence couldn't do much but slip home for now.

Chapter 3

For the next week Lawrence daydreamed during school. This was a very tough case. There seemed no way to stop the old witch. Last record of a witch near Rooksbridge dated from 1692, a lady only spoken of in whispers as Brandice May. Brandice was said to terrify local peasants who bowed to her every demand.

What had she been doing all these years? How did she get so old? How long had she haunted the woods? Maybe he could sneak in and rescue Lucy when the witch left the cottage? But how would he defeat her force field? What was so special about Lucy? And just what did Brandice plan to do with all the trapped cats?

Lawrence shared these questions with clever Mr Davis who agreed the old crone sounded very like Brandice May. Mr Davis said witches often used animals for many reasons, but cats were special. Cats are clever, fast runners and agile climbers. They have excellent night vision, can tolerate extreme weather and can silently sneak into places. A few rare cats possess a touch of magic too. Maybe only Lawrence could see Brandice's cottage as he used to be so close to Lucy?

Older, wiser witches valued cats as servants or familiars, using them to perform sneaky tasks. Most witches were good people, so gave cats the choice. However, a few nasty ones trapped and forced cats to do their evil bidding.

Hundreds of years ago information was often used as a form of currency, so evil witches would use cats to uncover villagers' secrets to use for blackmail. A sly witch with the right secrets for sale could collect lots of gold and influence powerful people. Few history books dare tell that cats possessed by witches spells have toppled mighty kings.

Mr Davis told Lawrence to find the witch's power source - an object special to them since youth, where they stored magical energy. Each witch had their favourites, but in this case it may be a cauldron, which probably helped create the evil shadows too. This could be why Brandice guarded her home so fiercely.

Traditionally folk used rare plants to help ward off evil magic. However, these needed to be grown under certain conditions to be effective and treated very carefully as many were poisonous. Maybe the best way to spoil Brandice's plans would be to take a little soil from consecrated ground and get it under her force field?

Mr Davis said people may laugh at the idea of such creatures as witches, but there were still countless things in this world the cleverest among us can't explain.

Lawrence remembered the moon was still only half full. Mr Davis said the full moon was overdue by at least a week and our moon was another magical energy source. It seemed Brandice was misusing its great power.

Lawrence had lots to think over, knowing he'd have to change tactics to catch powerful Brandice off guard. Mr Davis said Saturday was Halloween, a time of great celebration for witches. The lure of the witches Sabbath and the need to socialise with those of her kind would be irresistible. Powerful magic older than the mountains would fill the air that night. Lawrence hoped just brushing through that magical atmosphere may help his dangerous quest.

Chapter 4

Halloween night arrived and Lawrence's plans were set. At 8 pm he scrambled into the hidden clearing. The forest was as dark as pitch and lay deathly still. Not a single star dared sneak out and the moon hid nervously behind a cloud.

Lawrence shinned up the same tree as last time, praying Brandice wouldn't think him brave or silly enough to use the same hiding place. Tonight he was very cleverly camouflaged, even brushing his face with mud. At 8:30 Brandice still hadn't left the cottage.

Suddenly a dull, unsettling droning grew far off in the forest, crashed through trees, swirled round the cottage and shot down the chimney. The garden lit up in strange yellow light, the cottage door flew open and Brandice strode out, dressed in a long black cape and pointy hat.

Her bony hand cleared night sky for a moment, the moon wobbled and dulled and her ugly face brightened. Sucking in air, she transformed into eerie black mist and swirled round trees, cackling. Then she flew off deep into the woods, showering highest treetops with smouldering sparks.

Lawrence slid down the tree, pressing a stick into the protective dome's soft light, almost touching the gate beyond. Lucy sneaked behind the cottage, to a place where her fur shone brighter. Perhaps she'd been sneakily weakening this section for a long time? The small bag of church soil quickly warmed in Lawrence's pocket. He shot to meet Lucy, as warm energy whooshed behind him, slamming him through the barrier into the cottage wall.

Ignoring pain, Lawrence ran straight into the front room, where dozens of cats purred in excitement. The room was packed with black potions, magical books and secret messages addressed to Brandice May. Evil witches were asking how to create new spells, or looking for interesting ways to terrorize villagers. Each one Brandice helped would send her tributes of power.

In the tiny kitchen a roaring fire boiled an enormous cauldron of red hissing liquid. As the stinking mixture folded over and over, huge dollops of yellow slime swam to the surface, spitting out choking black smoke.

Lawrence's eyes stung, his ears rang and he forgot where he was, almost falling in the cauldron. Eventually he managed to throw the soil bag into the mix. Then stinking shadows swarmed from the chimney, moaning and wailing, bouncing him off walls.

Brandice's barrier blew up and the cauldron thrashed round wildly. Lawrence and the cats rushed outside the fence as cottage walls bulged dangerously. Tiny red specks flashed through the roof, wailing and hissing, shooting off into the forest. The glowing cauldron spun into the air, exploding in a mighty shower of sparks.

All went black and still, then a nightingale sang a warming tune as animals woke from a long magical trance. Moonlight lit a circle of moulding stone covered by thick brambles and Lawrence gasped in triumph. Lucy led the cats out the woods.

On the main road, Mr and Mrs Davis stopped to help return cats to their owners.

"Well done Lawrence. Your adventures make me want to be a kid again!"

Back in the woods the smell of a gigantic bonfire and haunting music drifted over the deserted clearing. Air shifted and swirled as a misty darkness whirled around brushwood, whipping up a storm of soil and rotting ferns. Only the cowering forest heard the deafening screams of revenge.

At home mum couldn't quite believe Lawrence's story, but felt proud that he'd finally found Lucy and hadn't given up on a friend. She laughed as the adorable cat played fetch, knowing kind Lucy probably only did so to amuse them.

The next night Lucy was visited by a very polite Persian cat named Caspar. Under the soothing full moon, Lawrence changed the lab back to a playroom for them all.

Chapter 5

One week passed. The clock struck 8 pm at Rooksbridge school. Mr Davis glanced up from marking books. What?! The weather vane had disappeared from the sports hall roof since tea time. Why?!

Mindless iron thefts weren't the only thing worrying Mr Davis. Spring should have arrived by now, bringing friendly sun along, yet it was raining again for the seventh day in a row.

Rain fell harder and harder, attacking groaning earth. Huge smelly mud clouds splattered the building, almost reaching higher windows. Soon drains would burst and the school couldn't afford repairs.

Lost in such thoughts, Mr Davis jumped in surprise as the door burst open. Lawrence stood there swaying, all pale, sweaty and breathless. "Brandice... back...revenge!" he cried, thrusting a note at Mr Davis, then collapsing on a chair.

Mr Davis found the note was hopelessly smudged. Slowly Lawrence told the tale. Lawrence and Lucy had been walking near the woods. Lawrence threw rocks into a smelly pond. Lucy snuck up a tree to look for nearby friends.

Lawrence laughed as a heavy rock sunk with a loud squelching plop. Lucy hissed angrily. Instantly sky turned black. Then it rained so hard it stung through Lawrence's thick hair. A droning black wind whirled across the water to his feet, dropping a shiny metal pipe into the pond.

In a blinding flash Brandice May appeared with two floating witches. One tall and thin, the other short and fat. Brandice's eyes bulged, paralysing Lawrence, mocking him telepathically. Lawrence glimpsed her twisted plans, which he'd now forgotten. Brandice shook him violently till he felt weak and faint. Lucy sprung from the tree, knocking Brandice's hat off. Lucy's fur glowed gold, then a small metal cross and note dropped from the tall witch's cloak. Lucy snagged them.

"Revenge!" Brandice screeched, her eyes shining fiercely like fiery hot coals.

"We haven't time...yet," her friends cackled insanely, creating gigantic crashing waves.

While witches' cast crazy spells across the pond, Lawrence and Lucy escaped. Their legs felt like ice and seemed to float over ground, but healing warmth from Lucy's glowing fur kept them going. Just outside the village Lawrence found the note under Lucy's collar, but had forgotten its weird drawings.

Mr Davis nodded wisely. "These clues help a little Lawrence. Our school weather vane was stolen tonight. The old cross from the town hall was taken last night too. Both were old iron and not worth much money."

"They're collecting older metal. That's why they stole the old cross, rejecting the new metal bar into the pond," Lawrence cried.

"Witches have some very strange habits which can turn into obsessions, Lawrence. Collecting objects and bearing grudges are only two of them," Mr Davis explained. "Shame that note was smudged as we don't know what they're planning."

Mr Davis said three witches or more who combine forces are known as a coven and become much more powerful, so Lawrence should place a horseshoe above the door at home to ward off unwelcome visitors. In the meantime they should learn how to protect themselves further against evil magic.

Mum picked Lawrence up, saying he would have to stop jumping into adventures before he got hurt again. Lawrence promised to as soon as no one was in danger.

At home Lawrence changed Lucy's playroom back into an evidence lab.

At midnight restless Lucy couldn't sleep, sensing a strange shape looming in the back garden. Mum and Lawrence were sleeping soundly, but Lucy still watched closely from Lawrence's windowsill. The forest seemed quiet. Only the treetops swayed in time to a silent tune, yet the odd atmosphere was hiding something. Ah, in shifting shadows at the bottom of the garden, tiny rain droplets moved slowly against the wind!

As the freaky rain crept closer, Lucy spat back. A moment later the showers had reached the back door, springing back in blinding flashes. Droplets reformed into weird, twisted shapes, melting into darkness. A simple horseshoe charm had kept the family safe for now...

Chapter 6

Next afternoon Lawrence wondered how to uncover the coven's plans. Mr Davis had said fighting witches unarmed and with little knowledge of their powers was very dangerous.

Lawrence asked Lucy some questions as it helped him think. Where was the coven's lair? What were witches doing with the old metal? What was Brandice's revenge for destroying her home? Lucy understood, though couldn't answer in human speech, so couldn't share clever ideas.

That night Lawrence took a gift to mum's friend. Rain still fell as he reached the dark, deserted churchyard. Fiery red lights flickered round the steeple top, passing through the large iron cross, which squealed and vanished. Lights disappeared too, leaving slimy water trickling over shaking gutters. Seconds later tiny rain patches floated off south towards whispering voices that grew louder and louder. As the evil coven drew nearer, Lawrence wisely ran home.

At 12 am as Lucy watched over the sleeping family, she decided to spy on the witches' coven and discover their evil plans.

Lucy slipped out the window, crawled along the gutter, leaping to the nearest tree. The freaky water creatures were waiting at the bottom of the garden again. Their smells and tempers grew stronger each night. Soon a horseshoe wouldn't stop them breaking into the house.

Very early in the morning when the moon turned his back, the creatures melted away, still leaving the forest black and fearful. Lucy silently followed their tiny hazy water patches and foul stench. She tracked them all night as they meandered over countryside, stealing and causing trouble with pets.

White mice curled up in tight little balls. Parrots twirled round and round talking gibberish. Enormous guard dogs whimpered. And at a bleak farmhouse hidden behind a whistling crag, barn owls headed for the highest trees, nervously plunging heads deep beneath wings. Creatures left small stick piles at each property, probably as markers for future thefts.

Sometime later when sky darkened further and the twisting forest path turned to thick black sludge, Lucy was far from home. Smelly trails dissolved in a clearing at a gurgling stream, leaving a dark, brooding emptiness.

A lonely star highlighted a small waterfall flowing between trees leaning over a rocky cliff. A large flat rock sat in the middle, warily peering over the edge. Thin red smoke trailed out the top, slyly sneaking between trees.

Lucy raced through the waterfall towards screeching voices drifting down the twisting, turning rabbit tunnels ending above a large cave. Sharp rocks clung to cave sides and glowing wet moss lined the shiny floor. Weirdly coloured water dripped from the jagged roof, splashing into a deep shimmering pool far below. Metallic glints flashed beneath the hot, frothy liquid, caught between a hundred ruby red eyes floating lazily below the surface. The water creatures were relaxing. A shallow channel cut round the cave allowed the strange liquid to swirl round in a big circle and back into the deep pool.

Lightning suddenly streaked across the water and three witches strode through solid rock, springing the water creatures up to attention.

"Foolish imps! It isn't time," Brandice stormed, sending a flash fire round the channel, pounding wailing imps against walls.

Like most witches, this coven loved to boast of horrible deeds and plan future ones even more ghastly. They talked of centuries ago when evil witches were far more common and feared by all.

Brandice's friends were Gretchen Moll and Sally Sourbridge. Gretchen stood tall and thin, boasting a long, pointy nose. Corrosive saliva dripped between her rotten teeth. Gretchen could manipulate air and elements into other forms, such as invisible creatures. Drinking potent witches brew and blasting out of trees late at night as a ghostly screaming skull were favourite hobbies.

Sally, the short fat witch's bulging stomach constantly rumbled like a roaring truck. The deep booming echoes whooshed round the cavern, shooting through the crumbly tunnels. Sally could stay under water for hours, leeching from life around to stay alive.

In olden days sly Sally stole peasant's precious food, replacing it with magically disguised dung. Sally boasted she'd never cooked for centuries, and how easy it was fooling stupid humans.

Brandice May screeched wildly at their tales, constantly coughing up purple smoke. Her power lay mainly with the land, so could create small earthquakes. Powerful Brandice had been Somerset's High Witch for a hundred Sabbaths. No one had dared challenge her terrible temper.

Witches grow uglier with each evil act. No wonder the coven looked so terrible. Last Sabbath a sacred oath bound them together for eternity. Now their magical spells took on powerful new twists. They could form a mighty whirlwind, travelling long distances quickly. They could leap from the highest mountain, floating high above clouds and dive the deepest, most treacherous seas. Now the coven could create grand illusions, carry unlimited items, had power over earth, air and water, and named themselves 'The Rooksbridge Coven.'

The coven crowded round a rock slab magically etched with local maps and notes. The witches raised bony hands high.

"Soon all this will be ours!" Brandice screeched loudly.

"All will be as it should be!" Gretchen agreed, slavering into the water.

"Humans will worship us once more, or all will suffer!" predicted Sally, rubbing her massive belly.

"We will be Gods!" the coven screamed. The cavern shook violently as an earthquake rippled far below. As rock settled, the coven discussed their evil plans, knowing our living earth still held great natural power which could be used for good or bad. Somerset had always had hidden magical wells that tapped into earth's great natural energy. Ancient roads often led to one of those special places. English folk named these invisible guide tracks, ley lines.

Near small magical wells some folks hair frizzed up. Others felt dizzy and confused. Rare people became charged with creative energy and clever ideas. A concentrated magical well often lay where many ley lines crossed.

These special areas were marked by ancient wizards with standing stone circles or rock formations known as henges. Some were covered by wells, castles, churches or crossroads. The coven's magic map highlighted a large triangle marked in red. Each triangle point represented a major ancient untapped well.

On midsummer's eve night Gretchen would fly to a well atop the hill Brent Knoll. Sally would swim to the second deep beneath Blagdon Lake, and Brandice would direct power from the third hovering above their waterfall lair.

When the magical triangle was complete, power would funnel into their indoor pool. Strengthened by the magically melted iron, it would charge water like a gigantic magical battery. The coven could then change earth's atmosphere. Soon every day would be rainy and miserable. People would have to pay for warming sunshine!

Lucy realised the coven already controlled the local weather, making it so wet and gloomy lately. She learnt earth's natural power seeped into metals deep below the earth. This metal could be used as magical fuel. Some had already helped create the water imps, using the power dripping from above. The coven only needed a final big iron lump to complete their plot.

Lucy scrambled out the tunnels, arriving home at dawn, whispering to sleeping Lawrence. Her magical purrs turned her adventure into a dream, so Lawrence awoke with fresh clues filling him with new hope.

Sleepy Lucy fell into a dream too, hearing Caspar call her to a hunt. Caspar was one of three cats on earth as special as her. When modern times arrived, ancestors left for other planets only reachable through the ancient dream realm. But precious mother earth still cried out for magical friends. That's why Lucy would marry Caspar under the magical oak, but not before destroying the coven's plans forever.

Lawrence burst into Mr Davis office, blurting out latest clues. Mr Davis looked up from an old manuscript hinting at even older, terribly powerful spells. "Listen carefully to dreams Lawrence. They often help us in the waking world."

Mr Davis said the coven were thieving closer to the village now, so would probably steal the large statue on the village green next. Lawrence suggested coating the statue with a mix of holy water, graveyard soil and protective herbs.

Midsummer's Eve or the Summer Solstice was almost as important to witches as their Black Sabbath. On that special night earth's natural power would build to a peak up to midnight. It would then weaken quickly and be reabsorbed into the earth to begin the cycle again, ready to help change the seasons. The summer solstice was the 21st of June. Only three days left to plan!

Rain fell constantly for the next few days. By midsummer's eve morning the village statue had vanished.

At lunch time Lawrence and Mr Davis settled their plans for destroying the coven's magical triangle of power that night. Sally couldn't be interrupted as Blagdon Lake was too deep. Mr and Mrs Davis would check lonely Brent Knoll, hoping to persuade local druids to help.

Lawrence would sneak into the secret waterfall. With an army of servants, Brandice may not put up a protective barrier and would need all her power to cast such a powerful spell. If Lawrence couldn't sneak in to the cave, he'd have to enrage Brandice enough to break the magical triangle. If any witch lost concentration, the great power flowing through them could backfire. Lawrence would need all his acrobatic skill and protective charms to escape her revenge. Mr Davis would meet Lawrence at the old oak even if their plans failed.

Chapter 7

At 8 pm Lawrence and Lucy passed the old oak where she often met friends. It was always so beautiful and peaceful here. Friendly sun loved playing in the colourful meadow, attracting so many curious animals. Once when Lucy was very small, they'd fallen asleep at the oak, enjoying happy dreams of brave young cats, tiny dancing lights and strange creatures flying between magical moons.

Lawrence sighed, petted Lucy for luck and plunged into the dark woods. Rain followed closely, bouncing off treetops.

Meanwhile Lucy sat under the oak and yowled. Sunlight faded, ferns rustled, grass swayed and branches bowed. Soon a hundred cats circled Lucy. Her fur warmed, spinning golden mist over the eager new recruits. Their eyes now blazed with magical power of their ancestors who hunted evil witches' souls on other worlds. The cat army chased Lawrence's scent through creeping darkness.

Eventually Lawrence found the quiet waterfall and snuck along the stream's grassy banks. Wave after wave of water imps attacked, smashing him deep into mud. Water rose quickly, as more imps constantly burst over his face till he could hardly breathe.

The top of the waterfall flashed black, becoming covered in shimmering mist. Lucy's furry army sprung through trees, swatting angry water imps. Lawrence staggered through the waterfall, where a thick silver beam plunged into the churning magic pool near the stolen statue.

Power built, humming, whirling, whirring - brightly lighting thickening water. The stinking mix swirled round the cave sides faster and faster, till Lawrence almost fainted.

Brandice floated atop the waterfall outside, holding a staff high. Great power flooding through the staff shook her like a puppet, bulging fiery eyes like bugs. Robes burnt silvery flames as she screamed in pain.

Lawrence approached the cavern's pulsing beam which slowly pushed him back. Weird murmuring, whispering hummed from the centre, like very slow old English.

At the second magic well, Sally desperately held her channelling position under the deep lake. Dead fish and wilting plants floated helplessly in the boiling water. The power had bloated her like a baby whale.

At the last well, Mr and Mrs Davis couldn't distract Gretchen as rain had thrown a massive landslide over the tiny road. From another hill he saw a glowing mist rolling faster and faster atop Brent Knoll. Wild triumphant screams sailed over. Feeling useless and frustrated, they headed to the old oak.

In the cave Lawrence's protective items couldn't harm the growing magical ray, so he heaved the coated statue into the pool, breaking the beam in three. It lashed around, randomly tearing out rock chunks, shaking walls.

Brandice lost focus, swooping through the waterfall to confront Lawrence, her face shooting out blazing silver bolts. "Sisters. Defend our chamber!"

Lawrence suddenly felt so weak he tripped up and his acrobatics failed. The coven reunited, trapping him in the corner. Sally and Gretchen were very confused and collapsed. Brandice shook violently, sinking to her knees. "You... you win," she croaked.

A blink later witches were gone and the cave was back to normal. Lawrence ran outside, finding cats triumphantly strutting round the clearing. Rain stopped as the heroes got back to the old oak tree. Mr and Mrs Davis arrived.

Mr Davis trembled and sweated at the news. "Lawrence, it's an illusion! Brandice is still in the cave! You must go back and destroy everything like at her cottage. Her weather spell was only the beginning. The rest was on the note she made you forget. Her plan was revenge all along!"

Lawrence realised Earth's power wasn't evil, but neutral, so could be used for good or bad. That was why charms had no effect on the magical liquid. "What can we do?" Lawrence cried, "The cats are normal again, we'll never beat the imps now!"

Sky flashed as a massive black whirlwind spun over the woods, swirling round the oak, dragging Lawrence and Lucy into darkening clouds. When mist cleared they were back in the witches cave which was the same as before and the smelly pool still bubbled and hissed.

Gretchen and Sally lay still. Brandice rose up, glowering evilly. Hundreds of imps surrounded them. Brandice screamed so furiously her head almost burst. "Now it's time!"

As imps forced the friends back towards the pool, something ancient stirred deep below, roaring like a mighty dragon. The cavern shook, swirling from side to side, till Lawrence felt sick and his throat dried up. The magic pool gurgled, spat, hissed and span. Brandice shoved them in, screeching crazily. "Have fun!"

Lawrence and Lucy dropped beneath the thick, smelly gunge, falling into a deep, dreamless sleep.

Chapter 8

Lawrence and Lucy woke tired and confused in the witches cave. The pool and water channel had dried to dust again. What time was it? Had Brandice's evil spell failed, or was this another sneaky trick? The coven hadn't left any clues, so the puzzled friends headed home again to a brilliant dawn.

Woods were thicker than ever, filled with fresh plants and brightly coloured fungus. At the forest entrance they trudged past a much leaner oak. Over the next field, instead of a road there lay another pretty meadow filled with sunshine, badgers and curious deer.

Where Lawrence's village once was stood ramshackle huts huddled in a circle. A sparkling stream wandered between them, gliding past shrubs, swimming over tiny rocks glittering like jewels. In the nearby field muddy people dressed in sackcloth tended roughly ploughed soil.

Enormous trees grew up to the horizon, where wispy clouds traced pretty patterns across bright blue sky. Lush countryside stretched on forever. Today was calm, warm and relaxing, sending a wonderful healing atmosphere bouncing through sweet, fresh air.

But Lawrence and Lucy's hearts fell, knowing Brandice had sent them back in time, probably by hundreds of years. Her twisted revenge had separated them from friends, family and help.

A very tall man pounded past them, booming, "She's coming lad. Follow me!"

A confusing buzzing erupted, droning louder and louder, like strong wind howling through trees. Seconds later the man's round, cracked face reappeared from a hut, screaming, "Quick, can't you hear her?" Lawrence and Lucy leapt into the hut, scrambling after him down a trapdoor, finding a woman and child huddled in a corner. Two old men nodded a hello, while drawing strange symbols in dusty grime.

Outside, the cowering countryside suffered mayhem and destruction. Black swirly mist and slime shot over the woods. Groaning trees snapped in two. Animals squealed helplessly as a screaming witch dumped them into an enormous messy pile and ate them whole.

"I'm Jack," the giant man said, patting Lawrence soundly on the shoulder.

"Lawrence and Lucy."

"Lawrence? Fancy name that. Where's your kin?"

"Er, it's Larry really. I live not too far away across the meadows. My house would be just over the next ridge on the edge of the flats, where forest thins to a strange point."

"Yes, makes sense to miss marshy ground. So, Larry eh? Good lad, you're learning fast. It don't pay to stand out here. Too many loose lips. It's not just witches we hide from. Our Baron's men can be terrible with strangers. They'll figure you a spy in those clothes. Not very bright see?" Jack said, tapping his mighty head.

"These were our daughter Willow's before we lost her," Jack said, throwing a tattered sackcloth over Lawrence. Lawrence rubbed dust over his jeans to blend in with villagers. Jack introduced his wife and daughter. Fat candles lit their curious faces with a friendly glow.

"Is the witch Brandice May, Jack? We fought her twice. We outsmarted her the first time, destroying her precious cauldron."

"I believe you, lad. No castle folks have skin as fresh as you and Lucy's eyes are the kindest and cleverest I've ever seen. Oh, she sits there polite enough, but I wager she's planning away. Animal's like her will give their life for friends. I wished I had a friend like that," he said sadly.

"Thanks Jack. Did Brandice steal Willow?" Lawrence whispered.

"No, Gretchen did. She's outside now."

Lawrence told the astonished family everything.

"A queer, queer tale Larry. I don't doubt your word lad. As I says, I knows things, but I fancy we'll keep it to ourselves. Crazy castle folk would burn you as a witch for spinning one like that," Jack announced.

Jack was pleased at Lawrence's honesty, explaining much in return. This was 1692. A time of plenty for lucky folk born into nobility. Honest folk had to work fields, gather fruit, hunt and fish. After Gretchen's attacks, any leftover food was shared amongst villagers.

The family were amazed hearing of Lawrence's life in the year 2000. Cars and the incredible choice of food sounded like a wonderful dream to them. An hour passed when Lawrence offered to look outside. "Be careful," Jack said nervously, "Find our chicken if you please."

Lawrence and Lucy crept outside. How had it grown dark so quickly? Gnawed bones, uprooted trees, holes in roofs - it was like an enormous tornado had raged through. Sparks shot everywhere, showering the filthy mess.

Strange symbols were burnt into soil near a vegetable pile. As Lawrence gathered supplies, invisible bleating animals knocked him flat, then a hay cart rustled suspiciously. Ah, the chicken's hiding place? Lawrence sprung over to help when the cart suddenly rocketed up, sending dusty hay and burnt feathers falling like rain that morphed to a screaming skull. Suddenly a younger Gretchen whirled round and round, taunting Lawrence. "Oh deary, A lost little pig!"

Gretchen shook and jumped when Lucy sprung in front of Lawrence. "Fools!" she screeched, melting into darkness, sending a pitchfork plummeting down. Gretchen had recognised them and would tell Brandice.

Back in the hut they told Jack the news. "How did it get dark so quickly, Jack?"

"Gretchen's magic seems to sucks all goodness out the air lad."

"Where does Gretchen live Jack? Maybe we could rescue Willow and return to our own time using witch's power? Dad always said we must know our enemy to defeat them."

"No one knows where Gretchen lives lad. She never leaves in the same direction. Witches take, they never gives."

"Brandice stole Lucy for her magic before she was old enough to use it properly. Perhaps Lucy's power is greater in the past? We'll have a good look around for clues tomorrow, Jack."

Jack said he'd tell nosey folk Lawrence was a cousin from afar. Lucy sniffed at the door. Something outside smelt new and very interesting. She padded up and down, almost forming a picture in her mind when the presence vanished into darkness.

Everyone settled down for the night. Lucy drifted off first. In her dreams she slipped across silent silver seas and climbed over mountains moving and shimmering under magical moons. Melting through odd, eerie silence like a shadow, she found a special place under the old oak tree where Caspar waited.

Tonight his speech grew very faint. Older, wiser Caspar wished to tell more, but couldn't hold the fading connection for long.

"How long have we been trapped in the past Caspar?"

"Not long princess. Move quickly, dawn breaks soon. The evil banishing spell has been cast only once before. It couldn't be reversed as the victim didn't have the correct magical item. You have less than three days before the spell sets forever. Search for our shadowy friends for help." Caspar sighed as Lucy's golden spirit spun back into her body.

Even with Jack's friendly family close, Lawrence felt lonely and anxious. Could they find Willow without being attacked again? How much time had passed at home? Was mum awake worrying about him too? Lawrence finally fell asleep in the early hours without any answers.

Back in the year 2000, Mr and Mrs Davis stood helplessly by the worried oak tree. Only a few minutes had passed since Lawrence and Lucy had been taken.

"Its ten thirty now Maria. When should we tell his mum?"

"We can't leave it much longer, Peter. Who knows what may be happening to them."

Chapter 9

Lawrence woke feeling a little more confident. Stepping into warming morning sun, he remembered dad used to break tricky problems up into smaller pieces. Lawrence and Lucy sat thinking. First they had to find Gretchen's lair, destroy her treasured magic item and rescue Willow.

Next they had to reverse Brandice's time spell, perhaps by draining her power, or find another way to return to their own time.

Jack's family went berry picking, promising to ask everyone about Gretchen. Perhaps some tiny detail could help track her?

Over the next two days Lawrence and Lucy searched north and east without finding any clues.

On the second night Lawrence suddenly found himself paralysed in a dark stinking room. A giant creature slithered towards him, hissing and coughing up moving slime. Lucy was crying miserably in a nearby cage. Suddenly Brandice towered over him, dropping burning liquid on his hair, screeching, "You ruined my cauldron!" Her long bony fingers poked him through the soft floor. The scene repeated again and again, till Lawrence woke sweating. Today was their final chance to escape, Brandice was on the way!

Jack said a magician had been summoned to the castle to entertain the eccentric old baron. Maybe the magician would have a magical ring, book or staff they could borrow? Castle guards wouldn't let commoners through the gates though. Hoping Lucy could understand, Lawrence asked her to sneak up the castle's small sewer pipe to search the magician's room.

Lucy shot through sewers, recognising a sweet, magical smell high above. In a tower room she found a miniature silver staff floating over a shimmering dresser. Lucy grabbed it, but dainty feet blocked escape.

A pretty, robed lady peered down very curiously as Lucy politely purred her tale. The lady smiled, placed the staff under Lucy's collar, telling her to concentrate when the time felt right. Lucy thanked her and rushed off.

The staff warmed as Lawrence and Lucy charged south, hunting for clues till late afternoon. At a gurgling stream a small rock morphed into a stone coloured cat called Gar. Gar told Lucy of a strange bush cluster on top the next hill. Animals always avoided it in a wide circle. Terrible screams were often heard there late at night. Cats agreed this must be Gretchen's lair. Lucy led the way, knowing Lawrence would follow.

Hours later they found a rocky thicket smothered with flowering mosses. Tiny trees grew round the sides, spreading funny shadows and thin smoky leaves whirled out plant tops.

It seemed so beautiful, till Lawrence noticed sun shone round it in a wide circle, just like Brandice's cottage. Lawrence found that long hanging grass hid a tight, bendy passage to a small cave. Suddenly a massive electric charge blasted him back outside. Sky went dark, and a weird ticking grew louder and faster.

Petals whirled like knives at Lawrence's face and slithering moss stung like angry ants. Lucy's gleaming fur spun the nasty creatures high into the air and the staff created a small protective dome above them both. Lawrence staggered to his feet, heading back to the small cave. The creature's crazy attacks and deafening drones crashed round like gigantic waves as Lawrence and Lucy edged under the cave's barrier.

The wall dissolved to weird green glows lighting a long, thin room stretching far into the distance. Glowing red stone lined the floor and bone furniture bowed with shaking powders, swirling liquid and dark energy books. What was Gretchen's magical storage item? The staff floated down the room to a huge grinning skull overflowing with bright orange pebbles. Of course, screaming skulls made Gretchen famous! But how to destroy it? Only a holy item or magic could destroy other magical objects. And very powerful items could only be trapped for short periods. The silver staff just floated there, humming.

Lucy found a thin, shivering girl in a cage further down the room. Lawrence rushed over. "We're Jack's friends. Are you Willow?" The girl nodded weakly. Lucy's magical warmth didn't seem to help Willow.

The annoying buzzing of the force field being lowered echoed down the room. Lawrence leapt behind a bench, hoping to sneak back to the staff. A black mist whirled down the room, blasting items round, smashing the bench to pieces.

Brandice May appeared, even angrier and uglier than ever before. Her pointy hat grew so hot and tall it scraped the roof, showering burning splinters. She screamed so loudly floor rippled, sweeping Lawrence off his feet. "REVENGE!"

"Now is my time!" she screamed again, firing poisonous green fire. Lucy leapt in front, reflecting fire off glowing fur, singeing her coat. Lucy sprung for the staff, willing it to follow her commands.

The staff sent a small circle of protective light towards Lawrence, who crawled inside. Brandice just continued furiously attacking him. When the staff's light faded, another safe haven blinked on a few metres behind him. Lawrence barely scrambled to the next circle as each light faded and Brandice's attacks grew stronger.

Dozens of lights had lit, but Brandice's rage grew wilder. Her head rolled uncontrollably and her bony fingers twitched violently. Now her spells had evil little creatures crawling inside, gnawing and gnashing rotting teeth inches from his face. Behind Lawrence, the long room was finally coming to an end and just one spell would vaporise him.

Then Gretchen floated through the ceiling, whirling round, screeching maniacally. A vast screaming imp army burst out her fiery skull, streaming along walls.

Lawrence had a brainwave. When the final protective light faded, Lawrence grabbed the staff, which turned him invisible. Expertly dodging and leaping round Brandice, he headed for Gretchen's skull, but couldn't get near.

Gretchen and her flaming skulls stalked Lucy, who arched up against Willow's cage. In those few breathless seconds, Lawrence's plan formed. If the staff could give out all that energy, it may be able to absorb magic from witches spells and Lucy. If he could absorb it all and use it in the waterfall cave, they may be able to escape! Lawrence shouted to Lucy, "Get the skull!"

Lucy jumped on top of it just as Brandice arced a spell towards her. Brandice's magic bounced off the skull, nudged Lucy, and bounced into the staff which blinded everyone in brilliant white light.

Lawrence eyes slowly opened. The staff had gone. The confused witches were shuffling nervously as if they'd forgotten where they were. Grating whines shot through the choking air as Brandice and Gretchen shrunk like balloons, vanishing through cracks in the roof.

Lawrence and Lucy had to work quickly before the witches returned angrier than ever. Lucy sat on broken furniture, concentrating till a spark smouldered. Lawrence rushed back to Jack carrying Willow. Jack carried her inside his hut. Soon a swinging lantern moved down the hill in time to a cheerful song. Jack's good friend Jof was visiting from up country. Even clever old Jof was very worried indeed at Willow's sickness.

Lawrence hovered near the door, hoping Willow would recover. It would be terrible for the kind family if she didn't make it. Lucy paced at the door. Before long they'd be stuck here forever. Had the staff sensed their intentions and gone to the waterfall cave? Their only chance to return home may have already gone.

Willow eyes burned red. Jof said Gretchen's evil had poisoned her body, so it didn't react well to nursing. Lawrence stood helplessly at the door as the family prayed for a miracle. He slipped dad's ring into Jack's pocket. "Hope it helps Jack. We have to go. I wish there was some way we'd know if Willow recovered."

"Thank ye. Kin have taught you all you need. Good luck lad, we'll send a sign about Willow." Jack promised.

Lawrence and Lucy ran into the night as a giant orange glow rose high into the western sky. Lucy purred happily - Gretchen's home was blazing fiercely. It was such a relief finding the staff in the waterfall cave, whirling round the magic pool. The staff morphed to a swirling silver pillar, spilling out speeded up gibberish. The heroes dived into the beam and vanished.

The time travellers woke back in the witches cave, pumped full of energy, overjoyed to be home. Mr and Mrs Davis met them at the old oak tree, where only 30 minutes had passed.

Lawrence blurted a second incredible tale that day. Mr Davis praised Lawrence for his quick thinking during the fierce battle. Mrs Davis wondered how Gretchen looked younger, yet Brandice appeared uglier and older. Mr Davis said no human could properly explain complicated time travel. Weird as it sounded, Gretchen and Sally probably didn't exist anymore in our time. Maybe Brandice could exist in both worlds because she'd gained extra power from the earth spell, and had travelled back through time as well? Lawrence would still have to keep a good look out for her next evil trick.

Everyone felt very sad hearing about poor Willow. Mr Davis said it was a big shame life didn't always work out exactly as we wanted, but Lawrence and Lucy should be very proud as they'd done all they possibly could to help. Hopefully Jack and Jof would send a sign soon. They shouldn't relax too much yet either as the coven would return with another terrible plan when they'd built up more power.

Back home mum listened to Lawrence's tale, smiling at his imagination. "After all that I should think it's time for bed, my hero!"

Next day Lawrence woke early, still buzzing with energy. Clever Lucy had been gazing dreamily out the bedroom window down the lawn, thinking was that the sign?! It certainly looked pretty, happy and healthy. Lucy purred happily, drifting back to sleep. Lawrence gazed out there too, opening the window and breathing in deeply. Ah, beautiful! Woods smelt of sweet pine needles and blooming flowers  all clean, fresh and new. Bright orange sunlight sneaked over the forest, drizzling dreamy red ribbons across the garden. Between oldest trees a beautiful willow fluttered happily in the warm morning breeze.

Chapter 10

Just two weeks later, in the very early hours Lawrence was dragged from yet another weird dream by a dull droning outside. He shot to the window, watching a mysterious green light flit between trees at the bottom of the garden. Light flew closer and closer, pulsing and jerking. Lawrence feared Brandice May had returned, till the flickering glow grew brighter, warmer and full of life, blushing the fence healthy red. An orb formed in a brilliant green flash, weirdly underlit trees and disappeared in a fabulous colourful curtain.

Lucy purred happily in her sleep, visiting faraway Caspar again. Lawrence smiled, pleased Lucy was enjoying nice dreams tonight. This was the third time strange dreams had woken Lawrence and it was still only 3 am.

A blue moon lit the room in bright, beautiful shades. Lucy woke up puzzled. A single ray of soothing light bounced off the ceiling, drawing the surprised friends gently out the window and down the lawn. As they glided between trees, Lawrence plucked a willow sprig for luck.

Friends drifted onwards, dodging sharper branches and nudging softer leaves. The sprawling forest seemed to last forever. As taller trees thinned, they flew across moonlit meadows and speed increased.

Land rose and fell, flying by quicker and quicker. In a blink ground changed to sparkling water, where weird glowing lights bobbed up and down hypnotically. Strange creatures darted along the riverbed, diving amongst walking plants. Lawrence stretched down, feeling cool water flow over his hand. Fingers wobbled and blurred and fizzy green light smoked out the tips, leaving a whistling glittering trail.

Over the water, muddy earth turned to fiery rock covered by small blurry plants gurgling and sliding across the churning surface.

Suddenly they swooped atop a gigantic mountain looming high above misty clouds. The mysterious moonbeam swirled over a crumbling stone temple, floating them to the floor. This ruins roof had fallen long ago, leaving only two walls dangerously bulging outwards.

In the centre of the messy, gloomy room a small staff rested inside a carved holder. Its stout oak shaft held a blue gem at the top. What was this strange place? Who'd brought them here and why?

Outside the broken walls, countryside suddenly changed. An endless dancing forest sprung up in confusing white flashes. Now a massive golden city towered over the far off horizon. Tiny creatures patrolled its ridiculously high walls, and strange shimmering spirals flew above. A blink later three tribal huts sat in a neat line instead. A gigantic pink toad with croaking skin swum down from the colourful sky to nest on top.

Moon's magical blue light faded, tracing patterns far away. It certainly wasn't going to return tonight. If good magical items detected bad intentions, consequences could be dreadful. All Lawrence could do was pick the blue gem staff up very carefully. Nothing happened. Lucy brushed by his ankles, and a beautiful lady appeared. Her ghostly image kept fading, allowing the strange morphing background behind to shine through.

"Welcome to the wonderful world of dream, travellers!" Lucy recognised her as the kind magician from 1692!

"I'm Lenora, a white witch from far across mighty seas. I once lent you my silver staff to return to your time. Friends, well done for defeating Brandice May again. I wish I could stay longer, but have no power here and have to get back to my young family. Please listen, there's not much time." Some words echoed loudly, others were faint, broken whispers.

"Normally dreams remain separate. No one ever dreams the same dream at the same time unless magic is involved."

"Tonight you'll see the dreams of a few of your villagers mingling together, and already this fragile dream world is cracking up."

"Soon the whole village's dreams will merge, then the infection will spread to larger towns, leaving evil free to enter dreams and change them to nightmares."

"Dreams form to teach, prophesize and entertain. When people suffer nightmares all night, every night, their waking life suffers too. Tired, nervous people can cause crime, accidents and worse. Society will break down."

"I crafted this basic dream staff under a magical blue moon, using oak from our field. Its powers are limited, so you must hurry. Use its pure spirit to reshape broken dreams."

"Thanks for helping us escape the past, but how do we alter dreams? Where's the real dream staff gone?" Lawrence asked eagerly, knowing people are judged by the debts they repay. But Lenora faded and scenery changed again like flicking through a book.

Lawrence and Lucy knew everyone's personal dream world had their own problems, which could be random and bizarre. This made shaping dreams very difficult. Lucy rubbed by Lawrence's ankles again, boosting his ideas. Lenora's silver staff had sensed and acted out their thoughts in 1692. The blue dream staff probably worked the same way, but they'd all need to work together.

The lively willow sprig slipped into soil at the temple entrance as Lawrence grabbed the staff and Lucy jumped on his shoulder. Below the misty mountain, bubbles of all shapes, colours and sizes bobbed up and down over the weird landscape, constantly barging each other. All bubbles weaved and bounced inside an enormous one ending at the mountain base.

One bubble held three girls on a small desert island, lost amongst a bubbling treacle sea. Lawrence willed the glowing staff to float above them, shouting at the dreaming trio, but they couldn't see or hear him. A mum and two daughters were having the same repeating dream every few minutes, skipping across the tropical beach, enjoying sunshine. Bright fruit spun round their fizzing hair, singing enchanting songs. A swirling misty creature appeared, playfully shot between them, squeezed into a little ball, bounced off pink palms, whistled a happy tune, turned into a huge melon and crashed on their heads. Mocking laughter echoed through the bendy trees, vibrating glittering sand.

Lawrence realised they had to enter people's dream bubbles and guide them out or change bizarre dreams to nicer ones. That should break the repeating cycle, allowing normal, random dreams to begin again.

Lawrence's clothes changed to a smart uniform and the staff floated them inside the dream bubble in front of the family. "Hello, park ranger here. We're closing. Thanks for visiting. This way please, straight across the sea!" Lawrence announced confidently.

"Thank you sir!" the lady cried gratefully. The dreaming girls stepped off the island onto a newly forming jelly walkway, quickly becoming lost in hazy black mist. Just as quickly the frustrated family appeared back on the other side of the isle.

The dream replayed another 3 times before Lucy marked a shadow and a shiny glint swirling beneath sand. Lawrence couldn't get under the weird sand, probably as they weren't using the original dream staff.

Lawrence imagined the sand was shallow water, making it flicker clear just long enough for Lucy to spring down and snip a wispy black tail off a fleeing shadowy creature. Green smoke wafted the happier family outside their dream bubble, and they floated away across the morphing scenery.

"Well done Lucy! Now for our next trick!" Lawrence cried, dancing across the beach. His steps brought golden nuggets bubbling to the surface. The nuggets dissolved when picked up. "Very strange. Well we can't expect to find all the answers straight away Lucy!"

Three nearest bubbles moved a little slower now. Other bubbles still formed and fell, but were outside the large one and still a long way off. "This is fun Lucy, let's help them all!" Lawrence laughed, spinning to the nearest solid bubble. The red fizzing bubble rolled and bounced like a rubber ball, whirling them inside. They became so dizzy and confused they had no idea which way was up or how to escape.

Eventually Lawrence imagined a bright magical sun that cleared the bubble of colour. There was nothing in here! Could dreamers really hide from a magical dream staff?

Suddenly a bright flash expanded the bubble in stuttering stages, building an earthly wooded landscape, complete with weather. A tiny shape grew on the hazy horizon. Soon a very old man wobbled into a clearing below them. Of course, no wonder the bubble was empty! This man was asleep, but had only just begun to dream.

The man sighed deeply, peering lovingly at a crinkled old photo. He felt all alone and let down again, so turned to leave, drying tears. Lucy and Lawrence wondered how to help. The staff hummed a strange enchanting tune and dimmed. Instantly an old wooden house built up, using bits of countryside.

The front door swung open, wafting out inviting smells. It was amazing how quickly the creaky old fellow flew inside. The staff floated observers to the ground floor to a woman cooking. A mischievous young boy chased a bouncy ball round the kitchen. The man's smile grew and grew as he hugged them for a very long time, then sat down to watch.

Ah, this must be his family who'd passed on and he'd been lucky enough to visit in dreams! It was such a happy, personal dream now that Lawrence and Lucy left the family alone.

Lawrence was about to will the staff to float off when a curved silver shield burst from the ground outside and an angry black mist shot into the sky. Lucy had been so touched by the heart warming scenes she missed the smoke. The staff helped Lucy land on the shield, which disappeared.

"Very strange. Where are these objects going Lucy? What's that black smoke? I bet answer's are very close," Lawrence said, hoping for other hidden clues. Lucy thought it only looked like a shield, so leapt on his shoulder, keen to be off.

A nearby beckoning bubble pulsed bright purple. Inside sat an old, sleepy cottage down a quiet, leafy lane. A woman lay asleep in the front room. Her antique clock read 4 am. Shadows flitted round crinkly curtains. At 4:05 a mysterious light appeared from within her sleeping body. As her golden spirit flickered into life, her earthly eyes blinked furiously.

Seconds later the ghostly shape passed through the window and ran across the garden hedge. Even the staff struggled to keep up as she powered down the track, leaving tiny trails in the night's hot dust.

Whizzing over moonlit fields, scenery changed from black to white, to night to day, to the gorgeous autumn colours in a mighty forest. Soon they weren't in England anymore, but another beautiful country far across the sea.

The spirit stopped at an old log cabin perched high in forested hills. An older spirit greeted her, and they dashed round back to dig furiously. Animals watched in wonder, trees creaked in the wind, sun rose and fell, and still they dug. Despite these great efforts, nothing was found, and the staff showed nothing hidden below holes either.

Night fell again and still the two restless spirits dug. Suddenly a flashing shape flitted between trees behind, becoming a man doubled up in pain. Sweat poured down him, and utter terror bulged his eyes. His pulsing shoulder popped and fizzled, showing flashes of other dreams. Mumbling useless prayers, he plunged through a foul muddy ditch that suddenly appeared. A tall, pulsing triangle thrashed the thick sludge behind him. "Save me!" he screamed. The two workers heard, though didn't see him, so kept digging. Dreams were merging together now. The dream world was breaking up faster and faster, it may not last much longer!

The forest quickly flooded with rolling coloured syrup, leaving dry pockets of random scattered scenes, like tiny dream islands aimlessly floating in a vast rising sea.

The man kept struggling to the top of a mighty pine, recklessly jumping to the next tree, but always falling. The staff flashed observers along the tree line, dropping energy so he could jump safely across tree tops. A dozen leaps later a weird, blurry tear in the darkness swallowed him.

Lawrence and Lucy looked closer at the other puzzle far below, whilst ground drained, stretched and expanded in nervous, jerky waves. Small sections of the scene lit up brighter and clearer, crazily shifting up and down, blurring, then blowing up like a microscope. From this height the solution was simpler.

The dream worlds corruption had hidden a tiny glow in nearby woods. Lucy guided the staff over there, shrinking the world back to normal, brightly marking the area. Spirits instantly charged over there and Lawrence and Lucy arrived back at the woman's cottage. Lawrence touched a long bronze piece that vanished and two black slithers shot from ground to sky. The lady's smiles shot the staff out the bubble, without revealing what the diggers had found.

Chapter 11

A dark rectangular bubble drew Lawrence and Lucy over next. Intense concentration cleared it, projecting a beautiful young lady ambling through dark, empty woods like a movie screen.

Lush trees had shaken off their colourful dress and rain had rotted their fine green carpet. Mouldy, twisted tree trunks allowed strange, sinister shadows to form amongst the knots. Shafts of black light shot through the canopy, creeping along branches, trapping wilting buds in dark, depressing prisons.

Ah, this was Rooksbridge forest and the girl was young Brandice May! Brandice glanced round suspiciously and the staff turned them invisible. Watching and waiting would be the best strategy just now.

Many witches can dream of their life experiences in great detail. More gifted ones can learn to dream in sequence too. Tonight Brandice dreamt over her early life right up to present day.

Brandice was born in 1602 in Rooksbridge Down, Somerset, in a shack deep in the woods. Miss May was a sweet, clever girl back then, always helping others.

Later a wandering peddler stole precious items from her home that would have saved her sick dad. When her dad died, Brandice was left all alone with only black thoughts for company. Very soon she decided to become so powerful no one would dare steal from her again. Brandice made the wrong choice back then because she had no one to help keep her on a good path.

Using power left from the time spell, Brandice recently invaded human dreamland, hoping to tap the powerful magic from the original dream staff. In the beautiful dream temple, a freaky, spindly legged creature furiously moved levers of an even freakier machine. Gold beams shot from his many eye clusters. An emerald staff pulsed in time with his wild moves, sending energy back into his curved silver back. Sometimes the power grew so intense it shot a brilliant star trail across the sky. Some lucky dreamer would get a very pleasant surprise!

This was the ancient dream master who tirelessly kept human dreams apart. Though when millions of us dream at once, sometimes a nightmare would slip through to an unlucky dreamer.

The staff's spirit had quickly sensed Brandice's evil intentions, vanishing in green smoke. It lured the magical blue moon to Lawrence's home, before fleeing to safety.

Frustrated Brandice smashed the poor dream master to pieces and had been draining negative energy created from villagers nightmares ever since. Luckily the master's parts had only scattered amongst dreams near the mountain as the ancient creature was strongly bonded to the sacred temple. By the time Lenora discovered Brandice's selfish acts, she'd stored more power than ever. Then she'd easily dispose of Lawrence and Lucy.

Brandice could wake anytime and they had no idea where her body was. This may be the only chance to cut off her power supply, banishing her from dreamland forever. Lawrence jumped into Brandice's dream, hoping to send her into a blind fury again, so she'd make mistakes. Lucy silently floated into a tree, disguised as Lenora.

Brandice was paralysed with shock till she saw Lawrence's dream staff, knowing it could be used against him. Her humming tune swum through smelly breath, swelling and shrinking her head, jerking, twisting, warming, willing the staff to her. The staff eventually shone brighter blue. Pah, failed! Still the filthy little thief couldn't harm her in dreamland, but she may be able to harm him!

Brandice attacked with vicious spells and Lawrence's staff conjured powerful trolls, vicious bandits and mighty dragons. "Tsk, party tricks!" Brandice sneered, instantly turning them to dust, which blew away on a strange, growing wind.

Lawrence called for dreaming magicians to help. Four heard the staff's call, trying to force Brandice's spirit back to her body, whilst being blown about like rag dolls in the rising storm. Brandice flailed around in pretence, easily forcing the magicians into their worst nightmares.

Lucy watched the fight carefully as Lawrence's skilfully dodged magical attacks. Having learnt about evil magic from Caspar, Lucy knew the rising, unnatural wind was ancient power being channelled to Brandice by Gretchen and Sally back in 1692.

Powerful gusts attacked the dream bubble now, massing into a roaring tornado tearing down trees in lines wider than fields. Gretchen and Sally flew out the storm in a whirl of choking smoke, reuniting the mighty Rooksbridge Coven.

Brandice whirled high in the air, screaming, "Join me one last time sisters!" She was trying to send Lawrence back to 1692 forever!

Sally joined Brandice's mighty whirlwind, slowly combining magic. Dark, twisting energy blasted out the wind, snapping giant trees like twigs, tearing huge chunks out the battlefield. A disturbing, chilling moaning pierced the bubble, rattling over hills, sending the coven into a magical frenzy. The two witches had almost joined evil spirits when Lucy whirled down as Lenora to distract Gretchen. If the coven combined, all hope would be lost. Being a master of illusion, Gretchen recognised Lucy instantly, screaming and coughing soot. "You burnt my house to cinders!"

Lucy smiled. "A home is a gift Gretchen, you misused yours."

Brandice roared like a lion. "We can defeat them together sisters! This dream world shall be ours!"

But in a blind rage Gretchen released her most powerful spell ever, screaming so loudly it shook the bubble like an earthquake, jolting nearby dreamers awake.

Gretchen's evil magic was so full of hate it pinned Lucy high up against the last standing tree. Even Lucy's powerful golden glow struggled to keep her safe. A thick dark film swept over the bubble, turning daylight into deep depressing darkness. The coven were trying to stop Lawrence and Lucy getting help from outside the bubble, and Lawrence's mind went blank.

Gretchen stopped screaming, floating over to join the coven, while Brandice and Sally's blending magic created floating ice walls, gigantic fireballs and twisting portals to evil planes. Lawrence felt sick, knowing a single touch would vaporise them or worse.

Lucy dropped down amidst noisy, flickering dark and choking dust, desperate to gather energy before the coven combined. Suddenly Lenora pierced the barrier long enough to faintly cry, "Control my staff, control the dream!"

Lawrence finally understood that despite the coven's great power, the staff could control when and where the fight took place! The wild carnage froze as Lawrence flicked through Brandice's younger dreams, restarting one where the coven hadn't formed yet and Brandice was attacking a village.

"Stop!" Lawrence commanded, "As lawful staff keeper I order you to leave. You shall never visit our dreamland again! Only pure souls may enter." Brandice's spirit scowled evilly, but didn't dare attempt another fight.

Lawrence's hand blotted her out of sight. When it lowered, strange magic had awoken Brandice and the dream staff had gone. Lucy was changed back to normal, and purring proudly. Lenora's faint voice drifted over the dissolving dreamscape. "Excellent friends. Now the original dream staff will return to the temple, the dream master will reassemble and repair your dream world. I'll leave you two a gift soon. Tell old Orthaniel you met me, he will..." But before Lenora could finish, heroes found themselves sweaty and breathless back home.

An hour later very tired Lawrence trudged into school, telling Mr Davis of their latest adventure. "Excellent work once again Lawrence. I doubt Brandice will stop her revenge till we stop her for good though. I don't know who Orthaniel is, nor what Lenora's gift may be. Have fun finding out!"

Lawrence and Lucy gazed out the bedroom window that night, feeling a little sad their latest adventure was over. Lawrence petted her to sleep. "Anyway, you and Caspar will have plenty to do soon with lots of kittens," he laughed, checking her swollen belly.

Chapter 12

Months passed till one beautiful day in steaming summer, Lawrence and Lucy sat relaxing by the old oak tree. Swaying fields of flowers fluttered enchanting patterns. Forest animals played in the afternoon heat, lured by warm wind blowing funny shapes across the sky. A dazzling rainbow shimmered on the far horizon, hiding a tiny black speck under its glittering arc.

Sun grew so soothing even the ancient oak creaked in utter content, relaxing so much his larger leaves bent down to fan their faces. Lawrence and Lucy sighed along with him at the rare, wonderful sights.

Lawrence rested his eyes for a second. Suddenly Lucy yowled in surprise, vanishing in smelly smoke. Lawrence leapt up, earnestly searching round the tree. His mind raced. Had Lucy been kidnapped again? Who'd look after her precious kittens? Had Brandice returned? Mum had got a large empty parcel last week too. Was this all part of Brandice's revenge?

Lawrence calmed down a little, hoping this was just Lucy's magic beginning to shine through. He enjoyed adventuring, but had planned spending this holiday with friends. He sat down again to think. Mr Davis was in France. Wonderful mum always listened, but would think he was just playing games. Who was left to help?

Clouds moved quicker, higher leaves shook and the oak groaned again, almost as if offering help. Low buzzing noises grew far down the meadow, where lush grass brushed ancient forest, then a colourful blur shot high above Lawrence. In a weird blue flash a beautiful dragonfly danced merrily across his shoulders.

Lawrence carefully shooed it away, but the lively insect was way too quick as if reading his mind. The excited fly buzzed all over his head, dancing downwards, tickling his neck with long silky legs, leaving golden slime. Lawrence giggled. "Get off!"

In another weird flash Lawrence was floating above ground and the world went black. Light slowly grew again, filling vision with hundreds of tiny pictures, each showing the same scene. Lawrence felt a little sick and a little scared when ground blurred and bobbed. When the world spun round too, he plummeted towards grass. A dragonfly flew beneath him. Instead of squashing it on the ground, six long, wispy legs stretched out beneath him and settled right on top the dragonfly.

In flickering stages the tiny pictures blended into one large wide one, till he saw further than ever before in every direction. Ah, these were his legs now! He'd turned into a dragonfly! Surely the other dragonfly was Lucy, so was this bizarre situation due to her blossoming magic?

"Keep your wings adjusted against the wind to hover," a young girl's voice sang out. Lawrence tried it clumsily.

Lucy's light, airy voice whizzed round wings, playing amongst branches. Soft and gentle like a warm summer breeze, it oozed intelligence and kindness.

"How can you do this!?" Lawrence asked, totally amazed. No wonder Brandice May kidnapped Lucy before her magical powers shone through!

"I'm don't know if I am creating this. Our oak's called Orthaniel. This may be Lenora's gift," she giggled, buzzing closer, nudging him affectionately.

"It feels very strange and awkward, Lucy."

"That's coz you've never been an animal. Come on, it's fun!" Lucy laughed, buzzing round the treetop in colourful circles. Her wings shimmered so brightly in the sun they looked like dancing fairies. Whenever she giggled her long body pulsed deep red, and she giggled a lot.

Lawrence followed slowly because heights still scared him a little. He'd prefer fighting evil witches any day. Luckily as a dragonfly this fear quickly vanished, for he'd taken on its good and bad points, and every dragonfly loves flying - the higher the better!

Lucy dove down, humming enchanting tunes with wings as Lawrence clumsily fluttered round. "Making music doesn't take much practice you know," she sung.

Lawrence didn't try making music, as he needed all his concentration to control flight. Lucy helped him practice a little more. Soon he learnt to dart forward and sashay sideways.

"Follow me friend!" Lucy laughed. With many wings and long, slim bodies, dragonflies could fly quite fast. The adventurous pair buzzed into the shimmering forest to explore hidden areas with their fabulous new bodies.

Chapter 13

Between tall trees, air grew very dark very quickly. The pair could only find each other by shouting, listening for the weird echo and watching the others dim glow. They flew for miles through the creepy forest, desperate to see what this unnatural darkness was all about. Lucy night vision was best, so Lawrence followed her over a tiny glittering stream dressed with silver pearls. Pin sized fish blinked pretty patterns along the bed. Lost in the ghostly beauty, neither heard an invisible barrier spring up behind.

Strewn around the forest floor, odd light and dark shafts spiralled up through trees, touching crimson skies. Wispy fog swirled between the beams like a winding brook, hiding mysterious energies below that hummed, spat and jolted fiery cracks through bumpy ground.

Lucy darted into a light beam, swelling four times bigger. "Look!" she squealed, spirally excitedly, making faint shapes when a twisted creature dived towards them. Lawrence quickly flew into the nearest light beam, growing almost as big as Lucy. The freaky bird fluttered off.

Flying wasn't easy whilst being so heavy, so they dove into a dark beam, shrinking back to normal size. Lucy checked the suspicious shafts again. "Who made them and why?"

Lawrence said they should keep looking for clues. Lucy had a brainwave. "I think we can enter other animals too," she cried, giggling at the idea.

"We should be careful which ones," Lawrence said sensibly.

Excited dragonflies raced each other between lights, darting past a slippery cliff when invisible objects rained past, attacking trees, hissing and snapping. Air grew lighter, then dark again in stuttering stages, highlighting suspicious shadows lurking near light beams.

While the dark flurries continued, black, twisted triangles swarmed out hidden caves behind, swooping in massive threatening circles. Far ahead, thin amber slithers peeped through bendy trees. "Head for the light!" Lawrence cried, flying as fast as possible, only surviving by swerving, jinking and darting randomly. Flies burst out the forest, weaving between heaving shafts of dull yellow light above a wide winding river. Weird fish leapt out the thick water, feeding on blurry blue traces skipping across the surface.

Towering black rocks crashed down on the banks from a blurry, jagged sky. Ones landing in light melted into twisty, bubbly black pools. Others shattered into haunting smoky faces, shaking the shadowy land that rippled in time with the river.

Meanwhile an army of fiery red glows poured out the forest, exploding in sparks. The freaky triangles wouldn't be far behind. In a last wild rush, Lawrence and Lucy reached the river's hungry fish. "Dive into them!" Lucy shouted. Lucy took over a young, colourful, fast fish, Lawrence's fish was old, dull and slow. Both were swept downstream, leaving two very confused dragonflies sitting on the bank.

Side fins helped turn quickly, smaller ones under the belly made little adjustments. Tails pushed them forwards, raising the top fin slowed them down. Water supported their weight, so they floated along without using much energy.

"Where are we?" Lawrence asked. His confused, fuzzy voice was dulled by the water, drifting off on the current.

"I don't know friend. Atmosphere changed when we entered the shimmering forest. We should practice with our new bodies in case we're attacked again."

"Perhaps those weird light and dark beams have different effects on different animals, Lucy?"

Gigantic splashes nearby disturbed their practice, but Lucy senses were dulled here, so she couldn't track their maker. An enormous spiked fish appeared in a bubble explosion, flipping Lawrence upside down. Spiked fish launched out her gaping mouth, shooting poisonous spines. Lucy nudged Lawrence upright and they took off down the river. Despite the vicious fish's size, it was dangerously fast.

"Head for the light beams!" Lawrence cried, spying little openings fizzing under overhanging bushes. One small stream slunk back into the woods. Around a tight bend, they bounced off an invisible barrier. Only a tiny bit of a light beam lay their side, vanishing the moment Lucy touched it. The mad fish slapped through shallow water, swamping banks. Her fiery eyes bloated with glee at cornering victims. "I'll jump into it," Lawrence shouted.

"No, it's Sally!" Lucy cried.

Every plant died as Sally's swollen belly scraped each bank. Lucy leapt over her, dripping gold slime, dissolving Sally's biggest spikes. Lawrence charged past Sally next, painfully scraping the side of the bank and scratching a few scales off. They darted back towards the river before Sally turned round in the shallow water. Round the next corner Lucy's leaps snapped a branch off an overhanging tree, which stuck across the banks, slowing Sally further.

Back in the river, the friends powered downstream. "What's going on Lucy?" Lucy didn't know and needed to be asleep to contact Caspar. "Let's look for more beams or animals to trade places with. Then we need to head home somehow," Lawrence suggested.

"How can we escape if we don't know where we are?" Lucy wondered.

"You could try magic."

"My magic's limited to intuition, defence and fire for now. Caspar says the year in Brandice's cottage set my studies back, so I've still lots to learn." Talk turned into deep thoughts and the river seemed endless.

Chapter 14

Sometime later huge morphing black blobs herded round the river bank, curiously nudging churning water. Sparkling dark swirls surrounded their distorted bodies. An incredibly odd mix of animal and shadows, the freaky things lurched, staggered and drifted around in a hundred different shapes. Long body sections stretched out amongst each other, without getting thinner.

"They're the rocks that fell earlier!" Lucy said brightly, "Remember they changed to gloopy black pools when landing? Those ancient beasts must be cleverer than fish. I bet they know lots about this world." A few bigger creatures sloped closer to the water. "Let them catch us!" Lawrence and Lucy said together, allowing the bendy beasts to draw them into utter darkness.

Weird snapping sounds turned lights on to a hundred grey shades. Thin black lines crisscrossed everywhere, joining scenery to everything else with strange backward twists and odd angles, like a deranged artist's drawing. Lawrence's new body snaked and shifted restlessly, constantly pulling in every direction.

Lucy's creature was very slow. When she bulged a wobbly section out, it snapped back like an elastic band, and she couldn't talk to Lawrence anymore.

Lawrence used thoughts to follow the nearest grey line leading along the bank. His mushy body hummed, stretched and snapped out like lightning to a sharp turn, gazing back at his last fading image. His body vibrated, soon settling down.

From this distance Lawrence saw the blobs were moving around aimlessly as if awaiting orders. One kept still  that must be Lucy. He shot backwards and forwards till Lucy matched his movements. Lucy's final move grated and whined, stampeding the herd. Lawrence and Lucy followed slowly as their thoughts couldn't keep up with the blurry, crisscrossed, twisty lines.

Suddenly the original creatures took over their bodies, shooting to the head of the herd, boosting the ride quicker and quicker, jolting from side to side, up and down at sharp slants. The wild ride dove deep beneath ground, where pulsing light strands squeezed them into tight knots and weird new shapes.

Strange apparitions sprung out the background, splitting and reforming minds and bodies onto different paths. Bendy lines flicked back and forth through treetops and sky, sometimes passing through solid scenery, leaving jelly bits dangling like tinsel. The herd furiously zigzagged over a moving rocky plain, suddenly dumping Lawrence and Lucy on the floor and calmly pooling on the warm ground.

Lawrence and Lucy kept vibrating and were reformed inside a castle tower, surrounded by sparkling light. "I'm Jasper, a white magician from far, far, away. Welcome to my research tower, friends. Lucky I bumped into you. Lenora said you burnt Gretchen's home down, which slowed her selfish habits. Well done."

Brightly robed Jasper appeared, fussing over floating maps and magic books.

"Wily old Orthaniel sent you two for a relaxing holiday, eh? I don't have time to visit earth since starting my discovery project. Ask him to drop by in his dreams." Jasper floated around, his mind juggling a thousand tasks.

Energy orbiting Jasper's pointy hat suddenly shot through the high ceiling. "We'll see our clever little Tim work soon," Jasper promised.

"Thanks for helping us Jasper. How many worlds have you visited in your magic tower?"

"Thousands Lawrence. I hope to make my invisible tower magical soon so a physical body could pass through it without realising. I mix ideas from other worlds to create an ultimate design. Patient trial and error leads to many great inventions."

Jasper's tower was an exciting treasure trove for the excited visitors. Fabulous creatures whirred and clicked to each other musically. Gleaming white potions hung in mid air, mysterious symbols popped up, and magical spells promised health, life among stars and eternal happiness. Unlike witches lairs, here lay only funny tricks, not dangerous traps.

"What are those jelly creatures Jasper?"

"I call them Thunderjellies for fun. Jellies act on instinct and only move slow or fast. They feed on ancient energy swirling in the weird light and dark beams. I once thought they were living clouds that fell to earth, now I think they may be the remains of forgotten dreams."

Lawrence told Jasper about their adventures. Jasper knew Lenora well, telling of ancient magicians called The Elder's. Elder's lived faraway, but were responsible for creating balance in this galaxy. Jasper would report the Rooksbridge Coven, although Elders were very slow at making decisions, so it may be some time before he'd be allowed to help.

Chapter 15

Jasper floated them up stone stairs, opening a door onto a large balcony. "Did you help create this strange world Jasper?"

"Goodness me, no!" Jasper confessed, with a strange shudder and a weird stare. Jasper's wispy friend spun round an old table, willing tiny chunks out the legs. It grew fatter, then spat out a miniature copy which split up into another two copies.

The creature buzzed round like a jet plane, dripping tiny coloured shards that arranged into a small living landscape. "Bravo Tim!" Jasper shouted, furiously scratching his pointy head and wriggling like a dancing worm. The noisy show hid tiny feet pattering outside the landing door.

"How does magic work, Jasper?"

"Lawrence, most folk think their world only contains everything we see. Magicians constantly research world's hidden realms to unlock their vast secrets," Jasper explained, rubbing a very itchy eye, "Now, if we..."

Lucy suddenly sprang at Jasper, forcing him against the wall as his face bulged red, flicking back and forth between Brandice's ugly face. Brandice's spirit had possessed Jasper, cleverly leaving her body safe worlds away! Red hot swirls flashed down from her bulging eyes into curled, bony fingers shooting flaming acid. Brandice floated high up to the ceiling, casting terrible curses.

Thick, pulsing bars shot up in the doorway. A vast, screaming imp army swarmed between pencil thin gaps like giant ants. Lucy set fire to drapes circling the balcony, stopping Brandice getting any further help. But how could they fight Brandice without harming Jasper?

Lawrence bravely fended off imps vicious attacks with a swirling magic tapestry that swooped from the wall.

Across the room, Lucy's protective fur lit up. She hoped little Tim may help them like the dream staff did. Tim instantly circled overhead, following Lucy's thoughts. Brandice's imps were copied and the two armies viciously fought each other, splattering corrosive slime when an evil imp fell.

Brandice changed her plan too, sending Lawrence's hypnotic tapestry fleeing over the balcony. She matched his acrobatics, trapping him against the melting balcony railing. Brandice kicked Lawrence over into the choking fumes, giggling wildly, then attacked Lucy.

Brandice's poisonous fingertip snakes flew everywhere. Lucy's gigantic python ball held Jasper's arms tightly while glass fireballs pelted off Lucy's weakening magic fur. Brandice attacked again and again with such power, sometimes the scene blurred, time stood still, reversed, then stuttered forward. Tim was young and innocent, whereas Brandice was old and sly. As Lucy wouldn't harm Jasper, Brandice would win eventually.

Soon exhausted Tim squeaked off through the floor. Brandice threw the pythons off and prepared to destroy Lucy, when a heaving great Thunderjelly exploded the doorway barrier into rolling steam. Brandice went wild, bashing Jasper's body around walls, and blasting enormous chunks off the Thunderjelly.

Seconds later the lightning quick Thunderjelly pinned Brandice in a corner, smothering her in freaky tendrils. Brandice screamed in terror, desperate to escape, her face spinning like a whirlwind. When her ugly features vanished, the Thunderjelly carefully lowered Jasper to the floor.

The Thunderjelly dissolved through the floor, leaving Lawrence scrunched up in very weird angles. When vibrations stopped, he helped Jasper up. Jasper had only suffered scratches and a bruised shoulder.

"Phew! Thank you friends! That was very weird! Watching my tower getting smashed up was very annoying too," Jasper confessed.

Lawrence said just before he hit the floor far below, a force swept him out the window into a Thunderjelly which shot to a light beam and changed to a creepy, crawly, squirmy worm like creature made of solid light and jellied shadows. This ancient animal had a strange, ancient story to tell. The images flashed so quickly his eyes hurt.

Then he had no control and went to a tiny miniature shadowy world inside a gigantic cave, far beneath the earth. His host creature rolled over and over, jellying walls, happily watching the world swirl. Millions of mysterious oval shapes dangled from strange points high above, but he couldn't see into any. Next thing he remembered was racing up the tower inside the Thunderjelly. Jasper was fascinated.

Lawrence didn't plan to grab Brandice's face. Jasper nodded, saying Brandice left because she feared imprisonment. "Thunderjellies must sense and exploit an enemy's weakness. We've still so much to learn from them."

Jasper bowed to his heroic visitors, presenting Lucy a collar to boost communication, telling Lawrence to pick a gift too. There was so much choice! A floral vase changing shape, moving round the room like a game? An etched silver brush that set hair in any style? A very weird, twisted stick, twirling faster the closer he got? A giggling scroll floating through walls? Ah - a small empty wooden box?! Jasper beamed, winking at Lawrence and a shiny black pebble appeared inside.

The pebbles layers swirled hypnotically like floating above a whirlpool, the tower melted away and Lawrence was jetting through space. Vibrating energy strings flashed past, jolting, pulsing, clinging to a giant fiery comet far off in front. Their twinkling light sped onwards, forming stars in another galaxy.

Jasper's tower jolted back into focus. Lawrence rubbed his weary eyes, guessing the pebble had shown a tiny bit of its power. His imagination ran wild. Could the pebble contact other dimensions, or had a mighty wizard hidden powerful spells inside? It felt like the innocent looking pebble was actually alive in some way he couldn't quite explain.

"This please Jasper!" Lawrence whispered, still daydreaming.

"As you wish. Have fun!" Jasper winked, tapping his shoulder for luck.

"Lenora or I will contact Lucy when the Elder's make a decision about Brandice. Now, home time, step into my magic circle."

The adventurers saw a blinding light, then slipped into a deep sleep, waking at the oak tree. Early evening shadows helped adjust eyes to earth's light. Orthaniel was so still he was probably still asleep, so they decided not to wake him.

Back home, Mr and Mrs Davis were chatting to mum. Lawrence told of their latest experience, showing Lucy's collar and the pebble in the box as proof. Mr Davis said Orthaniel the oak transformed them into dragonflies so they could explore the strange shadow world as Lenora's gift. The witches must have followed Lawrence and Lucy there, thinking the confusing land would make them easy prey.

Mum thought Mr Davis was kind to join in Lawrence's games, telling of the empty parcel delivered last week, with no return address. Mr Davis promised to help solve the precious pebble and the empty parcel mystery soon.

Tired Lawrence left the pebble on his bedroom windowsill and fell fast asleep. Jasper and Lenora entered Lucy's dreams. What should they do with Brandice after finally defeating her? Two possible solutions were agreed on. First was an eternal magical prison. Lenora suggested the second, agreeing the vote would be after the final battle. Jasper asked Lucy to call them if Brandice appeared before the Elder's decision and he'd try to help.

Chapter 16

In the early hours the forest sprung to life, bright new stars sprinkled secret messages across the sky and a warm green glow swept treetops. Moon's ghostly fingers sneaked through trees, exploding the pebble into life, warping windows into strange colours while drawing all magical energy from air.

For a second all Somerset stood still. One second later the world outside temporarily ceased to exist, leaving two sleepy friends on the edge of a long forgotten dimension, far outside normal time and space. Whirling energy streamed through into the room, blowing up like a giant balloon. Its musical humming invited Lawrence and Lucy inside its warping tunnel.

Spinning wildly along the twisting tunnel, Lawrence and Lucy watched a galaxy forming. Cosmic dust and natural energy swirled together, forming a long chain of unusually shaped planets. As the last one became solid, the tunnel collapsed, throwing Lawrence and Lucy into its unstable atmosphere. They swum through the thick, warm air, dodging explosions and whooshing energy particles.

Many of the planets features grew inwards and massive sections curled up in complex shapes. Impossibly high cliffs rose and fell faster and faster. Thick, magical fluid flowed everywhere like liquid lightning, draining into deep seas when weird mountain chains formed again for the last time. This was a beautiful, fantastical land where chattering energy constantly poured into thickest rock and only musical echoes returned.

"This isn't a strange dream Lucy. Has the magic pebble given us an unusual holiday?" Lawrence wondered as they landed softly between two towering rock faces scraping the bright red sky. Dull thuds and faint, tinkling whooshes swelled from deep within the cold dry rock. A soothing young voice sprung over Lawrence's shoulder. "Sometimes it's warm and you hear our dearest ancestors searching for answers." Such soft, honest words seemed wrapped in hope. Lawrence spun round, seeing only dozens of dust lines flocking like birds high above.

"I am Empheria, Queen of ancient Urazhon. Our world once looked this beautiful aeons before your tiny galaxy was wished to life. On our sacred remembrance day, honoured guests may venture through the rock to our hallowed temple."

"Please show us," Lawrence said eagerly. Dust swooped down, squeezed them into wispy dust particles and flew into a tiny crack in the rock.

A magical wind shot along tiny decorated tunnels. It blasted them out into two dusty clouds, swirling amongst a fabulous underground city lit in a golden glow.

Shadowy crystalline creatures flitted through carved halls below, frolicking with weird animal and humanoid shapes floating above sparkling energy fountains. Jewelled paths spiralled high up hall sides, ending in a glittering temple. The dust streamed through a tiny door hidden behind an altar, jetting higher and higher through rock into buzzing clouds.

Beneath, plants grew in gorgeous skies and dry rivers sprayed sparkling dust into steamy bubbles and streamy energy. Nature almost burst with colour. "Our children!" Empheria cried proudly, plummeting through ground in dizzying spirals.

Lawrence and Lucy passed through a hundred raining rock layers, to a chamber so big a dry lake lapped round the sides and clouds formed miles above. Ahead, a shiny pebble swirled into glistening dust above a magnificent throne. Empheria spoke again.

"Welcome friends. You have seen what our world once was and may share in our future. The jewel that brought you here is part of our ancient spirit which showed great trust in appearing to you."

"Long ago a powerful enemy buried a seed that slowly pulled our earth apart. Its evil has trapped our children ever since. Our enemy knows us too well, but nothing of you."

"How can we help?" Lawrence asked eagerly.

"He'll hear us!" Empheria whispered, transporting Lawrence and Lucy even deeper below to another vast, glowing cavern. Hidden tunnels and hollow rocks littered an ancient shoreline. Endless crisscrossed, bright bendy lines floated above faint, ghostly outlines of complicated towering structures which once stood.

Using the atmosphere's powerful energy, Lucy was able to talk with Lawrence with their minds. As they were now made of thousands of dust specks, they quickly learnt which voices to listen and respond to. Lucy said many far off murmurs were different body parts sending messages to each other, whilst others were just random thoughts to be ignored.

They explored smallest areas between light rays and dark, hypnotic shafts twisting tightly through massive boulders rolling round the ceiling. Along a miniature gully, enormous red clouds surrounded them, surrendering to Lucy's protective golden glow.

The two dust clouds swirled onwards, attracted to a dull pulsing along a softening wall. A suspicious crack led straight to an identical cavern. Something was playing with their minds.

Lucy concentrated on revealing this weird place's secrets. Her golden smoke joined swirling energy high above, blurring, changing sights to a shifting, rolling black wall with tiny lights shining like twinkling stars. Wishing once more slowly cleared it back to the cavern filled with fat tubes of rippling green flesh. Wobbling like slippery jelly ridges, their spiky sides heaved against groaning rock. Lawrence gasped at the evil plant.

Back at home, mum was jolted awake by freaky taps on walls. Heating blew hot and cold, the unplugged toaster turned on and stinking green smoke swept up the lawn.

Meanwhile Lawrence and Lucy were drawn inside the plants roots, where the world flashed silvery red. Tiny brown specks nestled below Lawrence, then energy streams boosted the new arrivals around fat tunnels, shaking them apart, trying to sort each speck into different sections. Gold specks dripped off Lucy as she fought for control.

"What's happening!?" Lawrence cried, panicking in the hazy light.

"Just a little longer!" Lucy shouted, falling quiet.

Lawrence felt fuzzy and dulled, blown ever onwards along dry, floating streams of colour. Passages twisted and turned endlessly. Clear spikes sometimes pierced tunnel sides, slowing dust down, showing glimpses of other plant sections thrashing wildly. Lawrence hit a sticky spike, finally stopping in the living passage. Below sat endless rows of white jellied squares, each with a dust speck stuck on top. Rhythmic pitter pattering turned into Lucy's musical speech.

"I know what's happening now. This freaky plants just one small section of a massive male winding round the planet, feeding on memories of Empheria's trapped children. You know - the dust specks? I needed time to listen to his thoughts, while he worked out where to put us."

"That's very weird Lucy."

"He's putting kids memories in the right order, to give himself a past. We stopped moving when my memories confused him. Let's trick him into releasing all kids at once, so they can fly to safety."

Lawrence's mind whirled. "We'll mix up all our memories of Urazhon, so he takes us all over his body. When he sticks enough of our dusty grains onto his jelly squares, we'll let our true memories flood out!"

Lucy giggled. "Perfect! His body will reject all specks at once like an uncontrollable sneeze! Just wait for my signal."

Lucy released them into the plants powerful stream and instantly travelled hundreds of miles.

Lawrence shifted backwards, slowly forming visions of Urazhon. Soon specks dropped into empty jelly squares faster and faster. Lawrence panicked. How would it feel when there was none left? He suddenly felt so weak and nervous, only Lucy's screams broke the black thoughts. "Now, now!"

Lawrence remembered mum and Brandice, Lucy thought of kittens and Caspar. Passages rumbled and snaked violently, warping blackening tunnels.

Roots squirmed and tightened, then viciously snapped back into shape like a giant elastic band. Lucy squealed as millions of tiny specks were instantly released above the planet, forming a magnificent explosion of glittering dust. Urazhon's two honoured guests were ejected above ground too.

There should have been a great celebration, yet Lawrence and Lucy were alone, swirling hopelessly over an empty land of lifeless dust and crumbling rock, helplessly watching a speckled, rippling cloud swooping across blackening skies. It quickly became lost far amongst the stars. Hope vanished with it, and all grew awfully calm and still.

"Dear me, they've gone!" Lawrence said, crushed with disappointment, "We almost did it Lucy."

Lucy sighed. "Ah, I didn't think - children have almost unlimited energy. They've been unable to move for centuries, no wonder they shot so far away."

Empheria summoned them to her throne. "We're very sorry Empheria. We tried our best," Lawrence confessed sadly. Empheria buzzed and clicked, talking with far off spirits.

"Thank you friends," she said, glowing bright, glorious colours. Empheria was delighted her precious children were free at last. No matter where they roamed, exciting traces, faint voices and tiny pockets of treasured memories would remain. They'd build another home together when she found them again. Dusty rivers flowing up to the sky joining other worlds in a glittering chain of life. When a guardian planet aligned with far off suns, a fabulous hidden city would form in a mighty mountain, where sparkly clouds danced amidst a grand, glittering temple. Mighty Urazhon would live again! Empheria's warm kindness swirled round them.

Chapter 17

Magical smoke cleared, leaving Lawrence and Lucy just outside their sleeping village. It was still early morning, very quiet, and confusing mist swept fields. Lawrence felt drained like never before. Lucy felt weary too, but kept glancing back suspiciously. The travellers passed Mr Davis's house, when he appeared at the door, very surprised to see them out this late.

Mr Davis said the empty parcel Lawrence's mum got last week was a sly trick. By allowing the parcel into her home, she'd probably allowed Brandice's evil to bypass any protective barriers. Lawrence and Lucy rushed home, finding mum missing and a dark misty Brandice May floating into the forest. "Lawrence, help!" mum cried weakly.

Brandice peered round a tree, laughing and cursing, shooting off on a wild ride through dark confusing woods. Lucy followed her foul smell and the dragging marks of an injured ankle for miles. Mum cried for help when the trackers lost the trail. At least Brandice was back in her body, though playing a twisted game of hide and seek.

"We'll find you Brandice!" Lawrence shouted, angry and frustrated.

Brandice's creepy shadow hid amongst mouldy trees, under stinking moss, plunged through deep, swampy water and scrambled over high cliffs. Finally the trail ended at Brandice's cottage which flashed from beautiful to ruins in time with rumbling storm clouds.

Air turned cold, damp and lifeless. Brandice suddenly whisked Lawrence and mum into her cottage. Lucy sprung onto the pulsing windowsill, hearing Brandice's endless threats. Poor mum had fainted on the filthy floor. Vicious oily imps had pinned Lawrence down like a sacrifice, as Brandice ranted crazily in different voices.

Brandice shuffled to where her cauldron used to sit, stirring air vigorously till sooty fire licked from floor to ceiling in growing circles. Growing, twisted shapes dropped to the floor, looming over the room. These frightening creatures were far more evil than the imps. Lucy acted fast, clawing a weak curiosity spell on the window. Like a hungry fox drawn to distressing squeals, Brandice pressed her long slimy nose against the pane. Her warty face stuck fast, violently wobbling and warping into evil creatures.

Lucy dashed round back, finding the tiny window flickering so fast it blurred. The whole cottage was now protected just as tightly.

Brandice broke free from the trap, roaring like a pride of lions, smashing Lucy through the fence with a venomous blast. The witch burst outside to finish her as Lucy called for help from Jasper and Lenora. As Brandice loomed over Lucy, a distracting whining filled the garden in thick fog. In the confusion Brandice stormed into the cottage again.

All fell quiet. Time passed incredibly slowly. Lucy grew more worried. Where were Lenora and Jasper? Then a strangely shaped face dimly lit up in the trees shifting shadows.

"Over here, this is our chance!" Lucy purred quietly. But the figure didn't move. Lenora may be waiting for eccentric Jasper, who'd probably got a little lost. A massive leaf pile rose in the tree line behind Lucy, bulging up into big round eyes, which just stood there too.

An evil voice croaked viciously. "Now!"

Gretchen slid across the forest floor, leaving burning debris, mocking, slavering in Lucy's face. "Others can hear your messages, fool!"

"Your friends sent us instead!" Sally bellowed, waddling closer. Lucy knew the coven would try to unite their power again, so tripped Sally up. Sally snorted in the mud like a giant pig.

Gretchen tried grabbing Lucy's collar, but her fur jolted Gretchen into such a frenzy she accidentally whacked Sally with magical snaking rope. Sally went completely wild, flailing a massive log at Lucy's head. The log learnt from Lucy's moves, growing extra branches to cut off her escape.

Gretchen set an invisible trap between trees, which Sally herded Lucy towards. Lucy's escape was stopped by spells smoothing trees, and now fiery skulls and fat bloated imps bore down on her from all directions.

Then an unnatural chill, an empty dullness surged over the cottage, sending eerie green shafts swarming out the chimney as demonic screaming bulged walls like bloated toads.

"Inside sisters!" Brandice screamed urgently, stopping witches attacks dead. The witches turned towards the cottage. What was going on in there?!

Lenora's ghostly form arrived in a blinding white flash that exploded all imps. Gretchen and Sally advanced on her menacingly.

"Leave, now," Lenora said calmly.

"Hardly," Sally scoffed, changing her club to a snarling poisonous thorn bush.

"Where's your friend, the stupid old man?" Gretchen cackled confidently. Lenora just shrugged. Arrogant Gretchen saw through Lenora's clenched fist, wincing painfully, shooting a look of terror at Sally.

"Flee Brandice!" Gretchen hissed loudly, backing away in fear.

"We'll meet again sister!" Sally coughed, bowing to the cottage. The two witches disappeared in smelly black mist.

Jasper floated into the clearing, having gone to Lawrence's house first by mistake. "So sorry I'm late Lucy. I've only just returned from the Elder's. Sometimes I think they talk too much."

Lenora nodded at the flickering cottage.

"Quite right Lenora. First things first. Thinks she can keep me out does she? I practised this for centuries." Jasper mouthed a silent mantra, raised his hands to the slowly clearing sky, almost like trying to touch moon and stars.

Something ancient stirred far off in the forest and the whole countryside silently answered, sending energy and thoughts. Hot air whooshed into the clearing, sucking earth's four elements into a dancing column of leaves. Powerful hums built within, exploding outwards across countryside. Air froze and magicians limbs stiffened. Lenora whispered. "Jasper? Too much?"

But Jasper whirring mind was far away, listening carefully, smiling a moment before ground quaked and groaned. Earth rose, fell, and loosened. Soil volcanoes formed, erupting dust bubbles high into the air, drawing eyes to specks of fizzing light rushing across the sky, lighting the moon eerie yellow. Shapes strewn across its surface looked like shadowy outlines of strange new countries. Soon the whole sky was alight with magical moonbeams and dancing coloured streaks.

"How!?" Lucy asked, awestruck at such hidden power.

"Every world has a guardian spirit asleep far beneath the earth," Lenora replied.

"And Jasper woke it?!"

"No, that was yours stirring in her dreams."

Trails of light rained on trees, setting the cottage alight, forming an intensely sparkling circle round the clearing. Hundreds of black dots shot out the cottage, uselessly trying to smother sparkles.

"Her devils have sacrificed themselves," Jasper cried, as the door disintegrated.

"Out!" Jasper commanded. A very angry, wriggling Brandice burst out, tethered to an invisible line. "Fiends! Release me!" she shrieked, spinning like a top, kicking out wildly.

"Miss May, you have terrible crimes to atone for," Lenora said firmly, releasing a tiny pulsing crystal which spun round till it became but a blur.

"What...what are you going to do?" Brandice croaked, trembling like a lost child. For the first time in four centuries mighty Brandice May had been trussed up like a chicken, stripped of magic and felt truly scared.

Lawrence struggled down the garden with mum as Lucy helped decide Brandice's fate. Lucy happily voted for Lenora's plan. Jasper thought it an excellent idea too, admitting he expected no less from such a gifted spirit so full of life.

"Lawrence, your gift can only be used once a year. Each time it will do something different," Jasper explained.

"Good luck you two!" Lenora cried happily.

"We can't stay. Goodbye friends," Jasper smiled. Three figures faded into the background.

At home Lawrence and Lucy tucked mum up safely in bed. "Lawrence, promise to tell me if this happens again. A mother has to help keep her family safe."

"Don't worry mum, Brandice has gone for good. Gretchen and Sally won't dare attack us now."

Mum smiled weakly, falling fast asleep. Lawrence and Lucy were just as exhausted, so went to bed too. Lawrence had been far too tired to ask Jasper what would happen to Brandice, though Lucy's contented purrs suggested she'd made an excellent choice. Lucy fell asleep, imagining the secret place friends spoke so highly of, happy knowing that -

Far across the bounds of time and space, further than the world of light and shadow, and further still than the land of dream lies the beautiful magical land of Ib. Floating in a vast, timeless ocean of mystical energy sits an isle of such great beauty, the blessed few who first heard tell thought it fable.

Energy waves playfully nudge each other, eagerly scaling her gold dusted beaches, sparkling water scrambles up her talkative trees, and magical winds carve wispy trails between her cloud topped mountains. Even the sun and moon strive to linger longer amongst the mysterious atmosphere, peering down in wonder at her endless beauty.

This unique isle's inhabitants known as Assai, are truly ancient spirits, the first to inhabit Ib countless aeons ago. Once thought common long before the Elder's formed in earth's galaxy, these first true mystics taught earth sages much through telepathy. Now long in retirement, only a lucky few glimpse a noble Assai spirit during ancient festivals, in rare, enchanting dreams or powerful magical visions.

Particularly kind, tremendously gifted and extremely generous to those deemed worthy, Assai use infinite knowledge wisely, sending warm spiritual waves to pierce the cosmos, so those without may glimpse a fraction of their learning.

Because Assai pass secret teaching to but a chosen few, few know of their existence. So fewer still know that on their heavenly island paradise there lies another world. Sheltered from Ib, yet no less beautiful, this small, delicate isle silently floats in the centre of a sparkling lake. Built of pure thoughts, it was once used by the wise, graceful Assai to learn and relax. However, these enlightened spirits have no use for it now, having learnt much of life and magic travelling the cosmos, communing with spirits of the universe and talking with the Gods.

And so now there dwells a pretty young girl, living in perfect bliss with her very elderly father. She doesn't suspect that ancient magic far older than the mountains holds her there, as it is a perfect copy of a world she left long ago. Of dark magic, revenge and previous lives she remembers naught, as her days are full of fun, friendship and spent casting spells to heal, teach and nurture.

When darkness falls, days wonders fade, allowing night magic to hold sway. Ghostly energy streams flash through meadows, shooting past homes, renewing countryside and dancing amongst ancient trees. While villagers sleep peacefully, other stranger magic flits among them too, as the young magician's joy still runs freely. For in her enchanting dreams she roams their thoughts, creating powerful visions of goodness and selflessness.

In this blissful calm, this fledgling angel plans great future deeds, yearning for the blessd morn, when trees bow in greeting and her world laughs, dances and plays under a golden and magical sun.

END

Thanks for reading. Please recommend this tale to anyone polite enough to listen! Time permitting, please leave a brief review on your purchase site. Email comments, questions, constructive criticism to: glossyturnipstories@yahoo.co.uk

Other stories in my E Book collection available at - www.smashwords.com

The Phantom of Pilberry Place

Into the Light

Gift of theFire Queen

Sir Ian Peters

Under construction: Masha and the Magic Gate \- A tale from Earth's Secret Valley.

Tales from Lenora \- Passionate stories sharing how magical Lenora drew her most famous characters.

The Ghastly Tricks of Baron Von Stuttenhoffen \- Sequel to The Legend of Brandice May
