

THE LONG WAY HOME

By

Cassandra Javier

Sitting on the edge of the world

23 year old Serena De Leon was waking towards the street corner to go flag a taxi. It was gonna be another busy day. She tucked her long, brown hair beneath one ear, opened her oversized Pink bag and took out her phone.

"G?" She spoke, talking to her bestfriend and housemate, Gina, on the other line. They were also working together at a gym, where they are both instructors. "I'll be late by a few minutes okay? Cabs are so hard to come by...Wait for me, k?...Okay..bye.." She then threw her phone back in her bag, tied her hair up in a ponytail and was finally able to get a cab.

***

"Fuck, fuck, fuck!" Blake Rodriguez, a 25 year old former businessman, who now considers himself to be just a bum, said as his car skidded near the gutter at the parking lot of this gym he frequents. He parked the car, got out of it and took a deep breath as he took out his duffel bag from the trunk and went inside the gym.

***

Serena arrived at the gym after ten minutes and thankfully, her client wasn't there yet. She started doing some warm-up exercises. Everyone were in the midst of doing their routines when they heard a man kick a chair near one of the treadmills. He seemed upset.

Serena looked at Gina from across the room and soon enough, she found herself walking towards the seemingly troubled guy.

"Excuse me, sir, is there any problem?" Serena asked.

"No." The guy said. Serena thought he looked good—chiseled face, deep-welled brown eyes, and his built was nice, too. Except for the fact that he kicked a chair.

"Sir, if there's anything wrong with the machine..."

"No,"

"But,"

"I said no!" The guy said through gritted teeth, "What's your problem?!"

"With all due respect, Mister, I am only trying to help you." Serena said, "You kicked one of our properties."

"Fine, I'm sorry. Girls like you who make this world such hell." The guy said, opened his duffel bag and got a thousand bucks, "Sorry. I'll get back soon if you need more." He then took a deep breath and made his way out of the gym.

Gina went up to Serena.

"What was that about?" Serena asked.

Gina shrugged, "I have no idea," She said, "He's cute though, isn't he?"

Serena laughed lightly, "Your client?"

"Nah," Gina asked, "He's not usually that way, you know...Probably having a bad day..."

"Must be a very bad day..." Serena winked and went to the cashier, "Take this, Melina." She said.

"Extra cash..." Melina the cashier quipped giddily.

Serena then turned towards the eyes of many people who seemed stunned by the guy who just left, "Okay, everyone..." She said, "Show's over, let's get movin'..." She smiled.

***

"Fuck her man, just fuck her," Blake said as he gulped some beer. That night, he went to his bestfriend, and buddy since kindergarden, Mike's house. Mike was the guy who listened to him—no matter what.

"Calm down, man," Mike said as he handed him some tacos, "Easy."

"She cheated on me!" Blake said, "Gellie cheated on me and you're asking me to calm down?!"

"Blake, you know you're crazy when you get angry..."

"Oh, yeah?"

"Like I don't know what you did at the gym." Mike said, "You told me about it a while ago, bro."

"Oh."

"Don't drink too much."

"How can I not be angry when my girlfriend cheated on me?"

"First of all, calm down." Mike told Blake, "Second of all, do you even really love Gellie?"

"Of course I do..."

Mike almost laughed, "Really? Or are you just concerned because this time, it's not you who bailed out and your ego's bruised."

Blake didn't know what to say. He sighed, "I just wish I knew she was just playing."

"You know Gel, Blake," Mike said, "She's a hardcore whore."

"But I..."

"I guess you met your karma..."

"Shut it."

Mike laughed, "You'll get over it. It's just Gellie, there are so many better women out there."

"Yeah, right..." Blake said sarcastically.

"So, that girl at the gym...I think you must say sorry to her."

"I already did."

"Yeah," Mike said, "sarcastically. Man, you must own up to what you did. And I don't mean monetarily."

"Why?"

"Because who knows? Maybe you'd get banned at the gym, you know...And maybe they know other gyms and..."

"Mike, stop being paranoid." Blake said and drank some beer again, "I just don't understand these women."

"Maybe you should try to put yourself in their shoes..."

"What shoes?"

"Exactly the point."

Sorry seems to be the hardest word

The following day, Blake went back to the gym and saw Serena talking to Gina and Melina by the counter. He walked up to them.

"Excuse me," He said meekly, receiving shocked stares from the girls. "Hi..."

"Hi," Serena said, almost flatly, "What can we do for you?"

"Uhm, you probably remember me as..."

"The guy who kicked up a storm." Gina said sarcastically.

"I just really wanna say I'm sorry," Blake said, "I didn't mean to be such an ass...I was just...I was just feeling bad because my girlfriend and I broke up..."

"We're really sorry about that." Serena said, not really meaning it.

"Listen, I really wanna make it up to you. I didn't mean to say what I said, it's just...Please, tell me what I should do."

"Well," Serena said, "You could just do your thing because I," She went on as she picked up her bag from the floor, "should be going now. Nice seeing you again, mister..." She paused, trying to remember his name and then realizing she doesn't know it in the first place, "Oh, never mind." She smiled lightly, "Excuse me." And with that, she walked away.

Girl in the mirror

Minutes after what happened at the gym, Serena was in one of the comfort rooms of the University she's part-timing at as a P.E. instructor. Years ago, she wouldn't have pictured herself doing what she's doing now: working in a gym and then being a PE teacher. It just wasn't her. Well, it still isn't her, she realized as she combed her hair in front of the mirror. If only she didn't need the money, if only she was stronger enough to not have to do this, if only she wasn't so keen on pleasing her mom even more.

Her mom.

Growing up, Serena never really liked anything to do with sports or dancing, or gym. But her mother, the ever-perfectionist, wanted her to try out all those things. She thinks that not being physically-active is a loss; that you're not complete without sports or dancing or whatever. And so she did.

Life is funny sometimes—one day, after so many months of being a bum, Serena finally got a job—a gym instructor with her friend Gina in this new gym near their hometown. And then there was also an opening in her former University as a PE instructor and so she also took the job. Now, a few months later, she still feels like she doesn't know what she's doing there.

She was still looking at herself in the mirror when she heard someone crying inside a cubicle. Seconds later, one of her students, Amira, went out of it and had red-rimmed eyes.

"Amira?" Serena called out.

"I'm sorry Miss De Leon, I'll..."

"Hey, it's okay," Serena said as she walked up to Amira, "Do you want to talk about it?"

***

Minutes later, Serena and Amira were at the school cafeteria, in a secluded spot by the corner.

"So, what happened?" Serena asked Amira, drinking some coffee.

"I just...I'm so sorry for not being good enough." Amira said, trying to fight back the tears.

"Who said you weren't?"

"I'm not...I'm not good in sports or...or anything like that..."

"Amira, who are feeding you these thoughts?"

Amira shook her head.

"You have to tell me the truth."

Amira took a deep breath, "My mom..she..she hates me. She thinks I'm not good enough because I...can't dance like her."

Serena gave a little sad smile, "Listen to me," She said and reached out for Amira's hand, "Your mom...She certainly is a big part of your life. Whatever she says, be ot good or bad, will always have an effect on you. But remember this—you are who you are and no one could change that. You're beautiful, and amazing, and talented, and...And as much as you want to please her, sometimes, the harder you try, the more you end up hurting yourself. The more you end up thinking that you're not good enough..." She took a deep breath, "One day, Amira, you'll look back in your life and realize that maybe, you should've played it cooler. You should've not taken so many things seriously. And being young now, you should know that you must love yourself more. Don't wait until it's too late."

"Wow, that's..." Amira said, "Thank you, Miss De Leon..."

Serena smiled lightly, "Do you still wanna come to class?" She asked, "I could excuse you for today...Go out, spend some time with yourself..."

"Really?"

Serena nodded her head and Amira hugged her, "Thank you so much, Miss de Leon, you're the best!"

Serena just smiled.

***

"I think they're mad at me." Blake told Mike at Mike's restaurant later that afternoon, "It was like, they couldn't even care less..."

"Chill, man, they may just be busy..." Mike said, while fixing some bottles in the cabinet. He then turned to look at Blake, "By the way, Gellie called, she said she needs some of her stuff back."

"Oh, great, tell her to stop by the house and I'll give her a party." Blake said sarcastically.

"I'm not telling her anything," Mike said, "If I were you, I won't show her I'm too affected. You know how she plays..."

Blake took a deep breath, "Right," He said, "Fine."

"And if I were you, I'd take that offer in LA to keep my mind off things..."

"LA?"

"Your uncle Arnie, remember?" Mike asked, "The job in that big movie studio."

"Oh." Blake muttered, "Right."

Hey there Delilah

A couple of days later, Blake was driving around town when he saw someone whom he thought he knew near the gym. It was...What's her name...Bake thought...Serena? Was it Serena? The woman who worked in the gym...Yes, it surely was her. She seemed harassed by a man whom he saw was going after her. He stopped the car near them and observed.

"Ric, for the last time, I've had enough," Serena said, "I already told you this, you know? We've talked nicely and...Ric, you and I, it's nothing."

"We're not nothing." The guy whom she called Ric answered.

"Okay, fine, maybe not," Serena said, "But it's over. We were never together...You were just miserable and lonely."

"But I broke up with her because—"

"Because you no longer loved her," Serena finished for him, "but it doesn't mean you're in love with me."

The man held Serena by the arm and Blake thought Serena looked disturbed. She was trying to let go of the man's arm but he was keen on keeping her close. Blake then went out of his car and went up to Serena and the guy.

"Hey, hey, back off, man..." Blake said as he held Ric by the shoulder.

Ric looked at him then at Serena, "Who's this man?"

Serena, also shocked by the commotion didn't know how to react. "He..."

"I'm her boyfriend," Blake told Ric, "And I don't want you anywhere near her."

"Is this true?" Ric asked Serena.

Serena looked at Blake and Blake gave her a knowing look. She then turned to Ric,, "Yes. So please, Ric, just leave us alone."

Ric then took a deep breath, looked at them both and slowly walked away. Serena gave a sigh of relief when he went away.

"You okay?" Blake asked Serena.

"Yeah," Serena said, "Thanks. You didn't have to do that, you okay?"

"You looked harassed, I couldn't just stay inside my car and watch him do that to you." Blake said, "And after all, I needed to make it up to you."

Serena smiled lightly, "Well, in that case...Thank you, then." She then tidied up her hair, "What's your name again?"

"Blake," Blake said as he held out her hand, "Blake Rodriguez."

"Hi, Blake," Serena said as she shook his hand, "I'm..."

"Serena," Blake finished for her, "I remember that."

"Oh." Serena said, "Well, uhm, anything I can do to pay for what you did?"

"Oh, no, no, it's okay..."

"I insist. I might've took your time."

"No, don't worry, it's..."

"Oh, come on."

Blake then saw the ice cream stand near the corner, "Well...some ice cream could be good."

***

"So, he's your ex?" Blake asked Serena while they were sitting on a bench, eating ice cream.

"Oh, no, not technically," Serena answered, "He's just..a..well..We we'rent officially together. He was just...sad."

"Oh." Blake said, "He had a girlfriend?"

"Yep," Serena answered, licking some ice cream, "They've been together for a long time. He was just getting the hang of it, and I happened to be there."

"But you liked him?"

"I thought I did." Serena answered, "But sometimes, love can be tricky. Sometimes, what you think is love isn't really love at all. Sometime, people can just be...lonely."

"And you were?"

"We both were."

Blake nodded his head, "So do you have a boyfriend right now?"

"Oh, no, it has been a while..."

"Why?"

"I don't know," Serena answered, "Life?"

Blake smiled, "Yeah, I get it."

"And what about you? What did your ex-girlfriend do to make you kick up a fuss in the gym?"

"Oh, that..."

"What?"

"She uhm...broke up with me."

"Obviosuly."

Blake sighed, "She cheated on me."

"Oh." Serena said, "Sorry."

"Yeah, I feel like an idiot."

"And it hurts because you love her?..." Serena asked, "Or because, it hurts you ego?"

"Oh..that's..."

Serena laughed lightly, "I knew it."

"Look, it's not like that..." Blake said, "It's just...I don't know what these girls want, you know? Especially Gellie. She's cazy."

"But if she was your girlfriend..."

"Okay, I take it back. It's just...I didn't think she'd do that to me."

"Because you think you're the only one who could do it?"

"Hey, that's..."

"What? It's true, ain't it? You've probably flitted from one girl to the next, thinking you're such a god..."

"Yeah, fine, Gellie's my karma, who knew?"

"Sorry if that struck a nerve..."

"Nah, you're probably really just right." He said, "It just sucks that she had to do it, you know? She cheated on me, with one of my colleagues."

"Well, try to see it positively. She saved you from spending more time with her because...well, maybe, you didn't deserve her."

Blake looked at her, "Thanks." He said, "And again, I was really sorry for the gym thing..."

"We're cool." Serena winked.

"So, how long have you been working there? Haven't really been seeing you before...And that's weird coz you are such a presence..."

"Now, don't use those lines on me..." Serena quipped.

"I'm serious."

"Well, I got a li'l change of schedule so I wouldn't have problems with my other job..."

"Other job?"

"PE instructor in a university 'round here..."

"Wow, you work a lot..."

"Oh, man, if you knew me back then, you'd think I'm a lazy git."

Blake laughed, "I won't call you a git. And besides, I'm the one who's a lazy git here."

"Oh, yeah?" Serena said, "Why?"

"I resigned from work months back, so yeah, I'm a professional bum..."

"I know the feeling."

Blake laughed, "My dad wants to disown me already, I can tell."

"Well, then, be a good boy and he just might not."

Blake laughed again, "So, you're pretty sporty, huh?"

Serena laughed, and Blake noticed a tinge of sadness in her laughter, "I had to be." She said. She paused and then, "What time is it, by the way?"

Blake glanced a his watch and answered Serena, "Almost 5..."

"Oh, my God..." Serena gasped, hurriedly throwing the almost empty cone of ice cream in the nearby trashcan and gathering her things, "God, my students must be waiting...I have to go."

"What? Oh, uhm, let me drive you there..."

"No, no, no, its okay, I'll just get a cab, but thank you."

"But,"

"It's okay, Blake, thanks..."

"Okay, uhm, can I just get your number and your ym id or something? I really enjoyed talking to you, Serena. Seriously."

Serena smiled lightly, "Yeah, yeah, sure," She said, and got a piece of paper and pen from her bag and jotted down her details. "There," she said, giving it to Blake, "See you."

"Yeah," Blake said, with a little smile lighting up his face, "See you."

Tim Mgraw

That night, while listening to Taylor Swift's "Tim Mcgraw", Serena logged on to her yahoo messenger account and found an invite from someone called "iamblake" whom she assumed was Blake. She added him up and surprisingly, he was online. Soon enough, she received a message from him.

Iamblake: hey serena 

itsmeserena: hey you...didn't know you liked typing with smileys..

iamblake: well, not always. So...how are you?

Itsmeserena: I'm good, how are u? funny how we're asking each other this, it's not like we haven't seen each other forever...:D

Iamblake: hahahaha oh well...look..i..um..i just wanted to tell u I really enjoyed being with u this afternoon. Like, really.

Itsmeserna:  that's good to know. And well...I can't believe I am saying this, but I had a good time too.

Iamblake: really?

Itsmeserena: do I sound like I'm joking?

Iamblake: haha well..thanks  so...what are u doin?

Itserena: listenin to the last few words of taylor swift's tim mcgraw, reading some stuff online and well...just chillin' out, it's been a long day. And you?

Iamblake: nothing, really. Trying to look for some decent job offers, but Idk, nothing much. Hmm..do u live alone?

Itsmeserena: why? Coz u wanna go perv on me?

Iamblake: nah, don't be silly.

Itsmeserena: hahahaha.. u shouldn't.. or else! Well, I'm not living alone. Sharing this place with a friend. It's cool, actually...kinda living away from the 'rents. Haha ;)

Iamblake: yeah, I know what u mean...

Itsmeserena: u live alone?

Iamblake: no, living with my granddad.

Itsmeserena: oh. Why?

Iamblake: well, the house is just...I can't stand being there. My eldest sister brags about everything, it's insane. And it's better being here..my granddad and I, we're a team. He practically brought me up.

Itsmeserena: well, that's good. It's wonderful you haven't forgotten that. 

Iamblake: I won't. so tell me, aside from being the sports buff that you are, what else do u like doing?

Itsmeserna: oh, a lot. Reading, drawing...I actually have a collection of drawings, clothes I designed, mainly.

Iamblake: wow. That's kind of a big 180 turn from what you're doing now.

Itsmeserena: actually, it's really what I love doing.

Iamblake: wow. Then, u must be good.

Itsmeserena: haha. Maybe? 

Iamblake: bet u are.

Itsmeserena: hahaha. I sure hope so. I mean, I'll be flying off to italy in a few weeks to study fashion so...

Iamblake: wait. You're going to italy?

Itsmeserena: yah, in Tuscany. I got a scholarship grant, it's stupid not to grab it.

Iamblake: wow...you are actually gonna leave?

Itsmeserena: well, if I could go there through teleportation, that would be good too.

Iamblake: hahahaha. Fine. I just didn't think I won't see u soon anymore.

Itsmeserna: huh?

Iamblake: nothing.

Itsmeserena: if you're fallin in love with me and u think I'm gonna stay for u, don't. ;)

Iamblake: oh stop.

Itsmeserena: hahahaha. So, what about u? what else do u like doing?

Iamblake: uhm, nothing much, really. Surfing the net, drivin 'round town...

Itsmeserena: with the girl you love?

Iamblake: oh shut it.

Itsmeserena: hahahaha I was just joking :p

Iamblake: oh well...yeah aside from that, I do pottery. At times, when I feel like it.

Itsmeserena: pottery, wow, that is cool.

Iamblake: yeah...haven't practiced in a while though...

Itsmeserena: why not?

Iamblake: idk, really. Anyway...uhm...while I was driving home a while back, I saw this new sushi place just round the corner...I thought I'd uhm...you know..ask you to go there...you know

Itsmeserena: you mean..you're asking me out?

Iamblake: ugh, well, yeah, I guess.

Itsmeserena: o...kay.

Iamblake: ok, what?

Itsmeserena: okay, i don't think I have anything else to do on Saturday so..yeah, sure, why not?

Iamblake: really?

Itsmeserena: really.

Iamblake: sure?

Itsmeserena: ask me again and I'd say no.

Iamblake: hahaha ok fine. So uhm, I shall pick you up then?

Itsmeserena: nah, I can manage. Just give me the deets and I'll go there.

Iamblake: are u sure?

Itsmeserena: sure am.

Iamblake: okay...so uhm, would 7pm be cool?

Itsmeserena: yeah, 7's perfect.

Iamblake: ok, see you then.

Itsmeserena: see you.

Iamblake: I uhm..you're probably tired already....so uhm..yeah, see you on Saturday and...it was really nice talking to u, serena, I mean it, like, totally.

Itsmeserena:  it was nice talking to u, too, blake. Even if you were such a jerk when I first met you.

Iamblake: hahaha correction, u didn't meet me then. U just saw me, at my worst, unfortunately.

Itsmeserena: haha it was a good first meeting. Lol

Iamblake: trust me, serena, meeting u was better. 

Itsmeserena: yaddida. Lol goodnight, smartypants, see u on Saturday.

Iamblake: goodnight, serena. Sweet dreams.

Itsmeserena: same to u, blake. 

Itsmeserena has logged off.

Iamblake has logged off.

No Strings Attached

"So, you agreed to go out on a date with him?" Gina asked Serena while they were having breakfast the following morning. Serena was pouring some juice in her glass.

"Yep," Serena said as she put the pitcher down.

"And it's definitely a date?"

"What does it matter?"

Gina laughed, "You've never gone on a date in...forever!"

Serena just shrugged.

"You're goin out with Blake because...because you don't wanna grow old and alone!" Gina laughed once more, "Wow, girl, I bet this feels like something new."

"Shut it, G," Serena said, "First of all, Yes, I may be going on a date with him but it doesn't guarantee anything. And, besides, he's single, I'm single, it won't hurt anyone. And...we all need a little bit of fun." She paused, "Besides, it probably would just be one date."

"Why?"

"Well, in case you've forgotten, G, I'm leaving, remember?"

"Oh." Gina muttered and paused, "Speaking of that...if you arrive in Tuscany, what'd happen between you and that chatmate of yours?"

"He has a name, it's Martin." Serena answered, "And again, just in case you've forgotten, it's partly because of him that I can get to go to Tuscany."

"It's because of his sister...who works with your long lost cousin. Funny how everyone knows everyone in your world."

"Yeah, I often wonder why."

A pause and then Gina spoke again, "Do you like him?"

"Him who?"

"Martin."

"Why'd you ask?"

"Come on, Serena, just answer me."

"He's a nice guy," Serena answered, "And...we've been friends for quite some time now..."

"Online friends."

"Whatever. He's helped me through the hardest of times."

Gina just took a deep breath, "Sorry."

"Nah, don't be." Serena said, "Anyway, I should get going, I need to buy some stuff...You have any requests?"

"Oh, maybe just some almond jelly..."

"Almond jelly it is..." Serena said, "See you later."

***

Saturday came and Serena was riding a cab on the way to the sushi restaurant. It was already 7 pm, but she thought it was okay to keep him waiting, to keep a guy on his toes for a while.

She was done waiting for guys. Done trying to please guys, done trying to live up to their expectations. And...she thought she was done dating. She hasn't been out on a date in...over a year or so. Well, she did go out with some boys, but she doesn't know if those were dates. She tried to create new relationships, but nothing ever works. It's either she lets go, or they let go. It's either they're into her too much, or just into her for a day and then it's over. She got too tired of wishing and hoping that someone will stay, that's why now, she was surprised at why she's wiling to see this guy whom she just met days ago.

Well, she thought, one date wouldn't hurt. Besides, she was leaving soon, she just wanted to enjoy the rest of her time in the Philippines.

A few minutes later, she arrived at the sushi house and got out of the taxi. She went inside and found Blake sitting by himself at a table near the windows. She walked up to him.

"Hey," She greeted with a light smile.

Blake looked up at her. "Hey," he said, stood up and gave her a peck on the cheek, "I'm glad you're here." He then pulled a chair out and motioned for her to sit there.

"You think I wasn't coming, huh?" Serena quipped.

"Oh, no, no, not at all." Blake said, although the truth was, by 7:15, he felt like he wasn't waiting for anyone. He finally felt how it is to be kept waiting. To be on his toes. "I had faith in you."

Serena laughed.

"So, uhm, shall we order now?"

"Yeah, sure."

"What do you want?"

"Oh just uhm...Gunkanmaki, maybe, with lots of quail eggs."

"Wow, good choice." Blake smiled, "I'd have that, too."

Serena just smiled, "And a Mango shake, please."

"Mango shake, it is."

***

"This place is actually beautiful." Serena told Blake while they were eating. "I like the whole vibe of the place, it's relaxing."

Blake smiled, "I'm glad you do." He said, "I kept on thinking that maybe you might not like it or something."

"And what if I actually didn't?"

"Then I'd still go ask you on another date."

Serena laughed, "Really," She said sarcastically.

"Really." Blake said, "So, how was the rest of your week?"

"Normal," She said, "Just buried myself with work, meetings, those stuff. And you?"

"Nothing much, too. I mostly stayed at home or in my friend, Mike's place, he's my man, ya know?"

Serena laughed, "No dates?"

"Well, unless you won't count this one we're having, no."

"You play with words too much, you know?"

"I don't." Blake said.

"Whatever you say..." Serena said. "So...tell me, why did you and your girlfriend break up?"

"Ex-girlfriend."

"Whatever. So?"

"I told you she cheated on me."

"And that's the truth?"

"Don't tell me you don't believe me."

"Just tell me about it."

Blake sighed, "It's the truth. Gellie...she...she's never been in a serious relationship and uhm...it was my fault. I used to be such a bad-ass. Who was I to think she wouldn't do the same to me? It's just bad that she did it with a friend. A friend. And now I couldn't even call him that."

"Sorry." Serena said, this time meaning it.

"Don't be." He said, "Besides, it probably was bound to happen, anyway. I just thought I was different."

"We all had these misconceptions."

"People expect too much, huh?"

Serena nodded her head, "Yeah."

Blake drank some mango juice and then, "So...what about you?"

"What about me?"

"Oh, I dunno, number of past relationships?"

"Oh, that," Serena said, "Two."

"Really?"

"Yeah. Well, two serious ones, and some...I don't really know how to call them."

"Really?"

"Yeah, why, what about you? Hundreds, I suppose?" She asked sarcastically.

"Nah," Blake said, "Well...yeah, I had a couple, but...nothing serious."

"Collecting girls, eh?"

"I'm not proud of it, okay?" Blake said, "I thought it was cool, I mean, I was just a kid, playing and all...but now looking back, It was like...that led to what happened between me and Gellie. I was a jerk, I deserved it."

Serena took a deep breath, "Well...we all make mistakes."

"I had lots."

"Same here," Serena said, "Well, not mostly with boys, but...in life."

Blake smiled lightly, "So, those two relationships...what happened?"

Serena took a deep breath, "The first one left me for uhm...well, someone else. They're married now. The second one...I found out he already had a child, and that would've been fine, but he didn't tell me so..."

"That must've been difficult for you..." He said, "Do you still talk?"

"No," Serena said, "We've nothing to talk about...However, his son studies in the school near the university I'm working at so...I do see him sometimes, we acknowledge each other with a nod."

"Oh..and the other one?"

"We talk sometimes...Just hi's and hellos, you know, the usual."

Blake nodded his head, "So...what about the other stuff?"

"What other stuff?"

"You know, maybe your pseudo-relationships or something..."

Serena laughed, "Don't miss a thing, huh?" She smiled, "Well...let's see...You've seen Ric, he's...I told you he was just pretty sad, we both were, back then. He and his then girlfriend were just going through so much...and then there were some other guys..." She paused and then, "But nothing ever lasted. You know how these things go...one day, they like you, the next...they're just gone. And then sometimes, you think you like this person and then you realize you don't...So, sooner or later, you end up losing friends, losing the people you once trusted, and you just feel more alone than ever." She went on, "Relationships are very messy. Or no, make that even pseudo-relationships."

"Yeah, I get that." He said, "So you haven't been in a real relationship for sometime now?"

Serena nodded her head, "It has been too long." She said, "Honestly, I have no idea how this dating thing works anymore, if you know what I mean. It's just...I don't know, weird, I guess."

"Are you scared?"

"Aren't we all?"

Blake just looked at her pensively and smiled a little. "I can't blame you, you've probably been so heartbroken a couple of times before..."

"Oh, you have no idea." Serena said, smiled lightly and then, "I've sworn off love more times than you could ever think of, but I still end up...I dunno, wishing that maybe, someday, I'll find real love. I'll find someone who'll stay no matter how hard it could get....or how hard I could get."

Blake nodded his head and smiled lightly, "You shouldn't give up."

"Yeah? Why?" Serena said and asked sarcastically, "Because you're here?"

Blake laughed, "Maybe..."

"Shut it, we'll probably never have another date, much more a relationship."

"Why?"

"Because..."

"Because you don't like me?" Blake asked, "Sorry, Serena, but given your circumstance, you probably wouldn't have gone on a date with me if you didn't like me...even just a wee bit." He winked.

"Shut it," Serena said, "Hypothetically speaking, Blake, even if I did...it would just be nothing in the end."

"Why?"

"Because I'm leaving, remember?" Serena asked, "I'm moving to Tuscany. You can't tell me you believe in long distance relationships because I don't think you do."

"Well...moving away isn't a reason to, you know, try to quantify things like that."

"I'm just being realistic." She said.

"Well, I don't wanna talk about it."

"Yeah?"

"Serena, I don't know...let's just...talk about something else."

"Yeah, thought so..." Serena said. "Let's talk about you."

"Me?"

"Uh-huh." Serena said, "What are you planning to do?"

"Uhm, order dessert?"

"Don't be silly, I meant...in the long run."

"Oh," Blake said and took a deep breath, "Honestly, I have no idea. Well, I do..but...Okay, my uncle who lives in LA, offered me a job in the movie industry there...Backstage, you know, I'm supposed to work in a Hollywood movie studio."

"Wow."

"Yeah, wow."

"So you must be going?"

"Uhm...I'm still thinking about it."

"Why?"

"I don't know, who does?"

Serena laughed, "You're one crazy guy. You should go, you'd probably meet some hot young actress, go out with her and go get a Vegas Wedding."

"Oh, Serena, I don't think I'd want that."

"But if you do, it would be cool. I'd be like, Hey, I went with that guy out one time..."

"Come on, I wouldn't want this to be the last date. I like you."

"Whoa, easy, easy. What did you say?"

"I like you." Blake said, "I know you'd think it's too early to say that but...I do. Really. You're just this...breath of fresh air, and I enjoy talking to you. A lot. I wanna get to know you more."

"Blake,"

"Listen," He said, "The more I talk to you, the more I get...enthralled. You are beautiful, and not just physically, Serena, I..."

"Blake, we all have these people we enjoy talking to."

"I know, but it's different with you." Blake told her, "You're like magic."

Serena laughed, "Oh, don't use those lines on me."

"But,"

"Okay, here's the deal," She said, "I can't promise you anything, Blake. You're a wonderful guy, and though we haven't known each other for a long time, I do enjoy talking to you. It's just...Realistically speaking, this thing between us...it won't really go anywhere. I'm leaving, you probably will, too. The only thing that could happen is a...I don't know, an online communication, maybe, but we both know even that isn't gonna make it all work. So...maybe, we should just enjoy our time together and move on when we have to."

Blake just didn't know what to say.

***

Blake brought Serena home that night.

"Hey," Serena said, "Don't be sad, you haven't spoken for much of the night...I just wanted to be honest with you, Blake, you deserve the truth, you know?"

"Yeah," He said, "I understand. It's just...Can we go out again? I mean, sure, you're leaving soon, But as you've said, we must enjoy whatever we have left so..."

Serena nodded her head, "Sure." She said silently and gave him a peck on the cheek, "I'll see you soon, okay?"

Blake nodded his head.

Enchanted

"So, how was the big date?" Gina asked as Serena went inside the house. Gina was on the sofa, drinking some juice and watching TV when she came in.

Serena threw her bag on the sofa and removed her Blazer, "It was fine..." She said.

"Fine?"

Serena sat down on the couch across Gina, "He told me liked me."

"Whoa!" Gina exclaimed, "and then?"

"Then I told him we had no future."

"W-what?"

"G, I'm leaving, we both know that. And besides, I didn't totally blow him off...I told him we better just enjoy whatever time we had left."

"Serena, what if he doesn't just want to enjoy this? What if he really likes you?"

"Then I'd think he's crazy. Because...that's just not possible. He's not the type of guy who will settle for only one."

"Really? Or maybe, you're just scared."

"Scared or not, it won't work. I just know."

***

"You're telling me that you don't wanna go home tonight because you're saddened by the fact that this woman whom you met days ago is going to Tuscany soon and she told you that things won't work out between you?"

"She's different, man."

"Blake, aren't you just over-reacting?"

"No," Blake said, looking astounded, "She just...she's enchanting."

"Blake," Mike said, "I think you may just have met your match."

Forever young

Blake tried to forget whatever Serena had told him during their first date. They started going out again, with no one mentioning the expiration of whatever they had. One night, after seeing a movie, Blake and Serena stayed in an old park where only a few people go to. It became their habit to just hang out there, looking at the night sky, not even saying anything at times.

"It's beautiful, isn't it?" Blake asked her, looking at the sky.

"Yeah," Serena answered and looked at Blake, "It is. The moon's lovely tonight. I like the moon...It's...beautiful. It has this, majestic power over you. Makes you realize that...That there are things we can't explain."

Blake smiled lightly and looked at her, "What's love for you?"

Serena looked at him unsurely, took a deep breath and then, "It's something...special. You just can't explain it, it's love, it's not anything else. I think you just know when you're in love. It's that moment when things get better, when things get real. When you realize that it's not just you in this universe...That, there are 6 billion or more people and one of them, is simply what you need. Not because they complete you, not because they're you're other half, but because you know that even if you're a whole person, you need someone to share your life with. You need someone who's gonna stick with you through and through. Love sees past through the worst things. Love is when you're at your worst and that someone is still there, believing in you, having faith and you, and seeing you as the most beautiful person on earth." She smiled lightly.

Blake smiled as well, "That was beautiful." He said.

"I'm good with words, huh?" She joked.

He smiled, "Yeah. But seriosuly, that was the best description I've ever heard of love. It's very...true. I never thought of it that way, you know? But now, I guess, you're right. Love is something different." He paused and then, "Have you ever been...in love? That way?"

"I thought I did, I mean...I did see past through the bad stuff but...nothing really worked. When you're young, you think being whole depends on someone...I know better now, life's not like that. You have to be whole before you find that person who's right for you in every way. Two broken halves trying to make the perfect whole is just...not right."

"I get that." Blake said.

"So..." Serena said, "How about you? I'm sure you've fallen hard for any one of those girls..."

"Well, if you mean, Gellie, then yes. Maybe...but it wasn't love. I mean, she was just this big, magnetic force whom I thought I could handle, but I was wrong. I thought I was different from the other guys, but the thing is, I'm not. And I had to learn that the hard way."

Serena smiled lightly, "So it was just Gellie?"

"Well...no," He said, "No, because now I know I wasn't really in love with her." He went on, "Aren't you gonna ask me what love is for me, as well?"

Serena shook her head, "No," She said, "Because I want you to tell me what it is when you actually have felt it..."

"What if I think I have?"

"I don't think you have." Serena smiled.

"Serena,"

"Why don't we go home, already?" She asked, "I think there's something good on TV tonight..."

Blake took a deep breath, "Okay." He just said, realizing that there's still a big part of her she's keeping closed-off to everyone, including him.

Every Rose has its thorn

Truth was, Serena didn't wanna go home that night. She didn't wanna be away from Blake. She wanted to spend more time with Blake. But she can't. Because every minute that she spends with him just makes her realize how much she's beginning to like him more than she thought she should. And she can't let that happen.

Serena sat down on bed, turned on her CD player, listened to Kate Voegele's sad tunes, and hugged one of her big pillows. She liked big pillows, they made her feel safe. She held tightly to the pillow, thinking about the past events in her life. She wondered why she's lost so many people already; why most relationships and almost relationships didn't work; She wondered why she wasn't like those people who just did what they wanted without falling apart with guilt or blame afterwards. She wondered how she had become so tough, and so much more in control of her emotions than what was needed. She had no idea how to tell everyone how she was feeling anymore. How growing up with a perfectionist mother and a goody-two shoes father took its toll on her; how she got so lost and confused and ended where she was right now; how the good people in her life just went away as easily as they came; how she often felt alone.

"Oh, you think too much." She told herself, closed the lights and tried to sleep.

Turning Tables

The following day, Blake went to gym knowing Serena wouldn't be there. He just wanted to talk to Gina, try to see if she knows things about Serena. Of course, she does, He thought. He just wanted to find out more about her, to know why she's the way she is.

Blake saw Gina by the counter and went up to her, "Hey," He greeted.

"Hey, you." She shot back.

"Uhm, can we talk?"

"Yeah, sure," Gina said and led him to a far corner in the gym. She asked him to sit down on the chair across hers, "What is it?"

Blake took a deep breath, "Okay, let me be direct...I...I love Serena. I know it's too early to say that, but I do. She just...she makes everything beautiful. I enjoy being with her, she's very...special. Different, and special. But...but it's just...She's closing herself off from everyone, even me. I just...I want to know why."

"First of all, she's my friend." Gina said, "And second of all, I don't wanna ruin her trust. If she wants to tell you, she will."

"Gina, I know that, but I just...it already pains me so much knowing she's...She's hurting and she's trying to be strong, and I can't do anything for her."

"Blake, you don't have to," Gina said, "Listen." She said, looking at him intently, "I cannot tell you everything Serena has gone through, that's her business. But...I have to tell you this. She's very fragile right now. She's been fragile for years. That Serena you see? It's only the shell of who she once was. I'm not saying she's not real, no, because She's one of the truest persons you could ever meet. It's just that...She's gone through so much already and trusting people has always been hard for her. It's not that she won't trust you, the thing is...She really doesn't know how to trust herself anymore."

Blake nodded his head, "I'm sorry I had to go ask you that."

"It's okay," Gina said, "Do you really love her?"

"Yeah, yeah. It's crazy but yes."

Gina nodded her head, "And you know she told you you can't be anything because she's leaving soon, right?"

"Yeah, which I disagree with."

Gina nodded her head, "If you love her, never give up. It won't be easy, I mean, she's leaving but...if you're willing, then by all means, stick with her."

"Thanks, Gina."

"Anytime."

One half wants me to go, the other half wants me to stay

Two weeks passed and it was Serena's last night in the Philippines. She had packed her things early and even had the time to go out with Blake earlier. She was back at home when she recalled things that happened with Blake that afternoon, and she couldn't help but pause for a while, holding the bouquet of Roses he gave her and sitting down on bed.

***

"So," Blake said while they were at a park bench, "You are really leaving."

"Yeah."

He looked at her and looked straight in her eyes, "I love you."

"Blake, please don't say that."

"Why?"

"Blake, you already know why. We have no future. I'm leaving tomorrow, I'll be in Tuscany...You'll be...I don't know, in LA or something. It won't work."

"We can make it work."

"How can you be so sure that I want to make it work with you?"

"Because even if you're acting like you're a tough woman who doesn't need anyone, I can see the helpless child in your eyes."

Serena's eyes flared up with anger, and frustration. "You...how...Fuck you."

"Serena," Blake said, trying to hold her by the arm.

"Don't you dare." She said.

"I'm sorry."

"Is this how you want me to leave, Blake?" She asked, "You want me to leave feeling...feeling like a mess?!"

"It's not like that, Serena, I just...I love you, okay?" He said, "And I just wanted you to know that because it's the truth. I care about you, and...And even if you're leaving, I'll still be here. For you."

"You have no idea what you're talking about."

"Give us a chance, Serena." Blake said, "I know I've a bad history, and...And you've had the worst experiences with guys, even if I don't know most of them...But we both deserve another chance. It won't be easy, but we'll make it work."

"Oh, fine, let me take in that false hope," Serena said sarcastically, "And then what? After a few days, you'd stop talking to me altogether, and I'll be left alone again, not knowing where I stand."

"I'm not gonna do that."

"And I'm not gonna believe you."

"Will you just give yourself a chance?" Blake asked, "Not everyone's gonna hurt you."

"Oh, yeah?" Serena said, "I thought so. But I thought wrong."

"Serena,"

"You know what the problem is, Blake?" She said as she stood up and looked at him, "I'm no longer the person I once was. And yet...And yet I'm still vulnerable as hell. And I can't be anymore, okay? I don't want to be that way. I'm moving away because I need a break, from everything. I have to start fresh." She sighed, "I enjoyed my time with you, Blake. But that's it." She closed her eyes and then, "You'll find someone else. Someone who's...not me." And then she walked away.

***

Serena, holding one of her big pillows once more, felt devastated. She liked him, yes, but what good would that bring? She needed to focus on her career. She needed to start anew. She was going to Tuscany, it was the best thing that could happen to anyone. And she couldn't bear to have a guy in her mind. Not now.

She turned on her laptop and logged on to yahoo messenger. Tryke was online. He was her online friend, the one who told his sister about her and had helped her get the scholarship at the fashion school. At first, she thought it was crazy, she barely knew him, but as luck would have it, Tryke's sister, Marcela, knew her third cousin, Minerva, who was working in the Fashion school. It was the perfect opportunity, and Minerva was good enough to cover the expenses of her plane ticket and let her live with her for a while, until she found a job and found the money she needed.

Tyketryke: hey beautiful 

Itsmeserena: hey mister 

Tyketryke: night-time there, right? Ready for your flight tomorrow?

Itsmeserena: yep. Everything's ready.

Tyketryke: whoa...what's with the enthusiasm? ;)

Itsmeserena: haha. Nothing. Don't mind me, just had a tiring day.

Tyketryke: oh. So..i guess I won't be seeing you til the other day, then? You need to rest when you get to italy tomorrow, you'd be jet-lagged.

Itsmeserena: yeah, I guess so.

Tyketryke: serena, are u ok?

Itsmeserena: I am, don't worry.  I'm...excited to see u.

Tyketryke: I am too.  k, I won't hold you any longer, I need to go to the shop, anyway, too many orders today. Have a good night's rest and a safe flight later, ok?

Itsmeserena: thanks tryke. See u.

Tyketryke: ciao!

Tyketryke has logged off.

The shop. She thought, of course. Tryke owned an art gallery and he was also a potter. Serena had always wanted to try pottery. That was exactly one of the first reasons why they had become good friends online. He showed her his works, told her more about pottery, and was just the kindest guy she'd ever known. Tryke was in Tuscany. That was also one of the reasons why she couldn't be with Blake. Tryke. He was single, haven't been in a relationship for four years since his fiancée broke up with him, he was older, already 28, and was a good conversationalist. She liked him, he liked her. Distance was just the problem, but now that she's going to Tuscany...

But then, there's that nagging thought that she didn't do the right thing. That she shouldn't have said those things to him. But it just wouldn't make sense. She had to go away.

Blake.

And now, she saw him log in.

Iamblake: serena.

Iamblake: I'm sorry.

Iamblake: can you just type anything? Pls. I'm sorry.

Itsmeserena: what do u want?

Iamblake: I just wanted to say I'm sorry. But I meant every word. I love u, nothing will change that.

Itsmeserena: y are u doing this?

Iamblake: because I want u 2 know the truth.

Itsmeserena: blake...I'm sorry. I just want u to know that.

Iamblake: I'll wait for u. we'll keep in touch. We'll make it work.

Itsmeserena: no. no, we'll...uhm. We can be friends but...it won't work. Things change, things will change. U deserve someone better. Someone who'll be there.

Iamblake: u will not be able to change my mind.

Itsmeserena: don't do this to yourself.

Iamblake: serena, I love u. pls remember that.

Itsmeserena: go to bed, you're just tired.

Iamblake: what time is your flight?

Itsmeserena: you can't go to the airport and ask me to stay.

Iamblake: I won't ask u to.

Itsmeserena: blake, just...just go to bed. I'll...miss u. you were a good friend.

Iamblake: serena

Itsmeserena: I'll go now. Bless u, whatever you'll do.

Itsmeserena has logged off

Serena had tears in her eyes after shutting off the laptop. Growing older, she realized, was nothing more than coming to the truth that you have to make the hardest decisions, because the world isn't the bed of roses you wanted to believe it was.

Hello Tuscany

The airport in Italy was, Serena thought, grander than grand. There were pictures of Italian tourist spots, beautiful ornamental plans, and the people were quite friendly, too. She greeted them in her broken Italian, gave them smiles, and looked for Minerva in the crowd. They haven't seen each other since she was 6 and Minerva was 12. Minerva only IM'd her hours before that she'd be wearing a quarter-sleeved black and white sundress. Serena scanned the crowd and there, she found not just one, but a couple of people wearing black and white sundresses.

"Oh, Lord." She muttered.

"Over here, Serena, over here!" A woman called from somewhere near one of the large Oak trees just outside the airport. "It's Minerva, Serena!" Minerva called out, "I broke my heel, I'm so sorry, sweetheart, just come over here..."

Serena nodded her head and went up to Minerva, who was wearing a black and white sundress, and had a beret on top of her head. Serena thought she looked pretty much like an Italian now, with a Cebuano accent.

Minerva hugged her, "Oh, I'm so glad you've finally arrived, Serena!" She exclaimed, "I'm so sorry, one of my heels broke and I'm wearing quite a...popular sundress. Vanity Fair says it's in this season, I just didn't think so many others would wear it, too.

Serena laughed, "That's okay." She smiled, "Thanks for picking me up."

"Oh, no problemo," She said, "You are beautiful, think you'd fit right in here." She winked, "Let's go."

***

"This is where you live?" Serena asked Minerva as they stood in front of her house. It was more than just a house, it was a mansion: Two big Greek-style posts held the sunroof, a grand door with Plaster of Paris glasses, large Frech-style windows, Grapevine trees all over...It was a dream, and yet it was real.

"Yeah," Minerva said, "The owners moved to Spain and sold it to me for a cheap price, it just needs some more furnishing but..."

"Furnishing?" Serena said, "Are you kidding me? This is...beautiful."

"Wait till you see more mansions." Minerva laughed and opened the door.

The foyer was huge, a lot of draperies, antique furniture, photos of Minerva on a desk. It was grand. Everything was grand.

"There's a lanai back there if you want to go," Minerva said and pointed to the back door, "I'll just go make you some juice."

"Thank you." Serena said.

***

Serena was still gasping at the beauty of the grapevines surrounding the lanai when Minerva arrived, holding a tray with two glasses of juice and some cookies.

"Thank you," Serena said, "God, Minerva, your house is just...splendid. Aren't you hiding a man upstairs?"

Minerva laughed and became silent for a while.

"Oh, God, I'm sorry," Serena said, "Did I say something wrong?"

"No," Minerva answered, "Well...I guess I should tell you the truth."

"The..truth?"

Minerva just nodded her head, "Serena, this house...it...it wasn't just sold to me by some couple who ran off to Spain. I've been living here for years. I used to live her with my...husband."

"Oh."

"We were a happy couple," She said and smiled lightly, "But six years ago, something happened...He. He died."

"Minerva, I'm so sorry, I..."

"Don't be," Minerva said, and squeezed her hand, "It was...an accident. He went to one of our vineyards one morning and...And they found him dead. He fell down from one of the hilltops there. It was...devastating. I couldn't talk about it to anyone, I didn't wanna remember anything. But oh well, that's life, forget one thing, you forget everything, and I didn't wanna forget him, I just wanted to start over after that." She paused and then, "Time flies, huh? Can you believe I was just your age when that happened?"

Serena didn't know what to say. Instead, she reached forward and hugged her. "I'm really sorry." She said.

Minerva shook her head, "Oh well, that's life. Things happen."

"So...uhm...after him, there was no one else?"

"No," Minerva answered, "I dated a few guys, nothing worked out. I don't think I could ever love anyone again that way, you know?" She said and smiled, "It has always been Ricardo. Always."

Serena smiled a sad smile and squeezed Minerva's hand.

"I shall start cooking our dinner now, It's your first night in Italy, I'll go make some pasta."

"Oh, let me help you..."

"No, no, sweetie, don't," Minerva said, "You're my guest. Enjoy the house first, go unpack your things. I'll take care of dinner." She smiled.

"Minerva?"

"Yes?"

"When you said it was an accident...Were you sure?"

Minerva paused and then, "If it wasn't, the truth should've presented itself by now."

Serena merely nodded her head.

40 kinds of sadness

Later that night, Serena logged on yahoo messenger, and sure enough, Tryke was online.

Tyketryke: serena! You're in Tuscany now?

Itsmeserena: sure am. I'm in minerva's house. 

Tyketryke: I'm so glad to hear that! Finally! Glad u got here safely...how's...Minerva?

Itsmeserena: she's good. Told me some things...haven't seen her since I was 6, mind you, but we hit it off quite well...

Tyketryke: that's...nice. So...how are u liking Tuscany, so far?

Itsmeserena: I like it. No, I love it. This place is more than beautiful. It's magical.

Tyketryke: I quite agree. I have been here for ages but Tuscany still never ceases to amaze me.

Itsmeserena: I think I won't have a hard time staying here 

Tyketryke: u sure won't...so, shall we meet tomorrow afternoon?

Itsmeserena: yeah, sure. I'd love to.

Tyketryke: let's see...from minerva's, there's this little coffee shop by the corner, it's called Cicero de Luna.

Itsmerserena: moonlight? That's moonlight in Italian, right?

Tyketryke: si. ;) u know your words, huh? Wonderful!

Itsmeserena: oh, believe me, I still have got lots more to learn.

Tyketryke: haha, you'll learn fast. ;) ok, anyway, I'll meet you in Cicero de Luna by 4, would that be cool? I'll tag Marcela along, too, so u could meet her. Do.u...uhm, want me to pick u up?

Itsmeserena: oh, no, no, it's ok, I think I'll fancy a walk.

Tyketryke: ok, I'm really excited to see u.

Itsmeserena: same here, tryke, same here.

Iamblake has logged on.

Iamblake: serena? Are u in Tuscany already?

"Jesus Christ." Serena muttered to herself.

Itsmeserena: tryke? Uhm, I'm logging off, ok? I'm...uh..the flight has caught up with me, really sleepy. I'll see u tomorrow, ok?

Tyketryke: yeah, sure, no problemo. Have a good night's rest! Dolce sogno.

Itsmeserena: thanks, tryke. Goodnight.

Iamblake: serena?

Itsmeserena has logged off.

Serena took a deep breath and hurriedly held the telephone and dialed Gina's number.

"Hello?" Gina said, stifling a yawn. She always slept early.

"G?"

"OMG, Serena?! Is that you?"

"Who else would it be?"

Gina laughed, "Chill...glad you're there! How does Tuscany look?"

"Beautiful, words can't explain."

"Wow."

"Blake was online."

"Whoa." She said, "What happened?"

"Nothing, I logged off."

"Serena,"

"I'm meeting Tryke tomorrow." Serena said, "I need no distractions."

"Whatever you say..."

"Oh, well, I shall go, I'm tired."

"K, talk to you soon, ok?" Gina said, "I miss you already."

"Shut it."

They both laughed, said goodbye and put their phones down.

I made the right decision, Serena muttered to herself, But why do I still fee like something's missing?

The Difficult Kind

"Serena!" Tryke greeted as he saw Serena walking up to his table outside the coffee shop. He thought she was beautiful—long brown hair flowing in the wind, a white sundress that looked casual yet chic, and some flat shoes. He hugged her as she came. "Finally! I'm...astounded."

She laughed. "Nah, you don't mean that." She said, "I'm glad to see you." She smiled, and she was. He seemed like a nice person, and that he was a beautiful man didn't hurt as, well. He had chestnut-brown hair that accentuated his chiseled face well, he was a little tall, around 5'10, she thought and he had an aura of distinct kindness. They shook hands and she noticed a scar near his right wrist, but Serena thought it would be rude to ask him where he got it, after all, it was their first meeting in person.

Tryke helped her sit on a chair across his. "You are very beautiful." He said.

She smiled, "You flatter me too much." She said, "What if I looked like a cockroach? Would you still think I'm beautiful?"

He laughed, "It wouldn't matter." He smiled, "Hmm...Marcela's not here yet, I'm really sorry, she has an awful habit of being late at times..."

"It's okay." She said.

"Shall we order then? You should try their mango crepes, it's perfect. Belissima."

"Sure, I'd love to." She smiled.

***

Minutes later, they were eating. Serena thought the Fettuccine Alfredo was flawless and the mango crepe, like this whole place, was magic.

"Like it, huh?" Tryke quipped, smiling.

"It's perfect." She smiled, as well. "Tuscany is such a beauty. You know, Minerva has all these grapevines at home, they're magnificent. It's like, it makes the beauty of this place even more right."

Tryke looked as if he didn't know what to say. He was staring into nothing.

"Are...you...okay?" Serena asked.

"Ugh, yes," Tryke said, looking at her and putting that smile back on his face, "Yes, I was just...I just remembered something."

"Oh." She said, and paused for a while.

"I grew up here, you know?" He said, "There are so many memories, good and bad...And..."

He was interrupted by a woman's voice.

"Timothy!" The woman said, walked up to them and hugged Tryke. "I'm so sorry, traffic was awful." She continued speaking in her perfect Italian and Serena couldn't help but notice how beautiful she was—how that black hair shone in the sun, how she had a perfectly made-up face (which didn't matter, because Serena thought she was beautiful even without it), and her clothes were so top-of-the moment, even having those Christian Loubotin heels. The beautiful girl removed her hat and noticed Serena, "Carina," She said, meaning "pretty" in Italian, "You must be Serena," She motioned for a handshake, "So glad to meet you. I'm sorry I'm late."

"It's okay," Serena smiled and shook her hand, "I'm glad to meet you, too."

"Oh, I'm really sorry I couldn't actually stay long," Marcela said, abruptly interrupted by Tryke.

"Marcie!"

"I have a meeting," She said, "Wedding prep," She then looked at Serena and smiled, "And besides," She went on, "I don't wanna keep you two away from each other. It's your first meeting, lots to talk to." She winked.

Serena laughed. Tryke looked embarrassed.

"Oh, come on, Timothy, you have been telling me about your excitement with meeting her, don't be such a fool, asking me to stay here when you know you want to spend more time with her," She said then turned to Serena again, "My brother's quite...shy. But he really wants to spend quality time with you." She smiled, "Oh well, I'll be running late. I have to go, I'll see you both soon, and Serena, goodluck with school. You'd fit right in." She winked and went away.

"I'm really...sorry...about that." Tryke told Serena.

"No, don't be, she's...cool." Serena smiled, "She calls you Timothy?"

"Yeah," Tryke said, "That's my first name. Timothy Ryan."

"Oh, wow."

"I don't like using it, though, it's too formal, but Marcie...she's...I dunno, she's keen on calling me that."

Serena laughed, "That's cute," She said, "She's older?"

"Just by a year." He said, "Doesn't act like it, too."

"Must be fun having her as a sister, huh?"

Tryke laughed, "You have no idea." He said. "What about you? Any brothers or sisters?"

"Oh, no, I have none."

"Whoa...your parents must love you so much, huh?"

She laughed, a tinge of sadness very noticeable, "I...am...not exactly what they wanted."

"Huh?"

"Not perfect." She answered.

"No one is."

"No, I mean, I gave them so much disappointments. Didn't finish school with honors, couldn't find a job easily, those stuff..."

He nodded his head, "That doesn't mean you're a failure." He said, "We all make mistakes, we all have those moments where in we feel like...nothing. We're not lazy and all, just nothing."

"Yeah," She nodded her head, "I had quite a while feeling that way..."

"But now you're here."

She smiled, "Yes," She said, "A dream come true." She went on, "What about you? I mean, I know Tuscany's a dream, but have you ever thought of going somewhere else?"

He smiled sadly, "I've always loved Tuscany, can't think of anything more, but...one time I had to live in Wales."

"Wales? Wow."

He smiled, "Yeah, wow, but nothing beats home...I just...stayed there for a year, then went back here."

"Why'd you have to go there, by the way?"

"Oh, it's uhm, complicated, something just happened."

"Oh, sorry."

"It's okay." He smiled.

"I bet there were lots of beautiful women out there..."

"There were plenty," He answered, "But I had someone then. Someone I really loved."

"Your then fiancée?"

He nodded her head, "Leah," He said, "Yes."

She nodded her head, as well, "What...actually happened between you two? Why did you break up?"

He paused for a while and then, "Well....before I went to Wales, we uhm...I made...a...mistake. We both did. We tried to make it work between us but that mistake...that mistake crept up on us and...And it wasn't easy. I came back, but...nothing was the same anymore. She fell in love with someone else, and...I had to let her go."

"Just like that?"

He shook his head, "It just wasn't working anymore. And...And she and I...we both had to start fresh."

She nodded her head. He may have left some loops in the story and not told her everything, but she understood. After-all, that was what she was doing, right? Starting anew. Starting fresh.

"Do you still talk to her?"

"At times," He said, "Tuscany's not that big, we still see each other accidentally, some days." He went on, "But nothing more than hi's and hellos...She and that guy she fell in love with are still together."

"Do you still love her?"

"She'll always be a part of me," He said, "But no, I'm not in love with her anymore." He continued, "What about you? Left someone new in the Philippines, perhaps?"

For a while, she thought about telling him about Blake, but she refused to. She was, nevertheless, starting over. This was a new life, she need no reminders of her old one. And, besides, she and Blake weren't anything, were they? "No," She finally answered him, "As I've told you before, it's been a while since I've been in a relationship..."

He nodded his head, "You wanna go to my art gallery?"

She smiled, "I'd love to." She said.

In Wonderland

Serena was wonderstruck. She was looking at the pots and jars that were on display at the gallery when she spoke, "You made these?" She asked Tryke.

"Not all of them, no," He answered, "Only those three large jars out there," He pointed to the three large jars by the corner, "And these ducks, and little pots out here..."

"They're amazing."

He smiled, "Some others are way talented than me."

"But you," She said, "are exceptional."

"Oh, you have no idea what you're talking about." He laughed.

"Are you always that modest?" She asked and they both laughed.

They started walking again. "I like it here." She said, "It makes me feel...safe."

"Glad it does." He said.

"No, seriously," She said, "Art has always been my rock." She told him, "It keeps me hanging on."

"Tell you what," He said, "It kept me hanging on, too."

"I can't make stuff like these, though..."

"But you are a talented fashion designer, and soon, your works will be worn by who knows? The rich and famous?" He smiled.

She nudged him, "I'm actually nervous. I don't wanna let your sister down, she gave me the scholarship."

"You won't," He said, "I have complete faith in you."

She looked at him, "Yeah?"

He nodded his head, "Positive."

They walked some more and Serena noticed a painting that resembled Tryke on a wall. "Is that you?" She asked.

"Yeah, uhm, Leah made that..."

"Oh," Serena muttered, "Wow."

"I was actually supposed to take it off the wall but the clients told me it was one of those things that made the gallery what it is..."

"I think I agree," She said, "It's wonderful...also those other paintings to tell you the truth."

Tryke smiled a bit, "Leah was quite a talented artist." He said.

"Does she still visit here?"

"Oh, no," He said, "No, she uhm...She rather started detesting the place since...Since before I went to Wales."

"Oh."

Silence and then, "Good thing you didn't think of closing the shop..." Serena said.

He smiled, "There are things that keep you alive, no matter how painful." He told her.

"I believe you," She said, "That's actually how it goes, most times...The things you want almost always have that tinge of hurt, or pain, or sadness..."

"Fashion for you?"

She smiled and nodded her head.

He took a deep breath, "So, what's it like?" He asked, "Teaching PE?"

"It's...hard work," She answered, "Especially for me, I mean, it's not really my area of expertise...but sometimes, when you're there, you meet people who remind you of who you really are and what you really want..."

"And now, you're here."

She nodded her head and smiled, "And now I'm here."

The Only Exception

It's been a week since Serena moved to Tuscany.

It's been a week since Blake has been staying in Mike's house.

That afternoon, Mike came home to get a file he has forgotten early on, and found Blake by the large windowsill, looking depressed.

"Blake," He said, "You know I have no problem with you staying here, but...you could take a bath, you know?"

Blake looked at him, "I did."

"Oh, sorry,' Mike said, "Your hair just looks...messy." He told him, knowing Blake had always been conscious about his hair and his looks. He then went up to him and sat down beside him, "Blake, come on, it's been a week. You weren't even together."

"She doesn't wanna talk to me."

"Blake, she may just be tired, she may just be fixing things, she just moved."

"It's been a week."

"Blake," Mike sighed, "Come on, let's go out, go to the restaurant with me, then we can come to a party later..."

Blake looked at him with sunken eyes, "Thanks but," He said, "I want to be alone."

***

That afternoon, after hours of sulking, as usual, Blake logged on to yahoo messenger and found that Serena was online, He hurriedly talked to her.

Iamblake: serena?

Iamblake: pls don't log off

Itsmeserena: I wasn't going to.

Iamblake: I just really wanted to talk to you. I'm really sorry, if you're still mad at me, but...I love u. u know that. And..i just. I've been in pain since u left.

Itsmeserena: blake..pls don't be.

Iamblake: how are u? up early?

Itsmeserena: yeah, up early. Going to the vineyardsl today so...

Iamblake: that's good. How's Tuscany?

Itsmeserena: beautiful, it's beautiful.

Iamblake: I'm glad you're safe.

Itsmeserena: blake, can I say something?

Iamblake: anything.

Itsmeserena: look...I appreciate this, but...but I'm seeing someone else.

Iamblake: what?

Itsmeserena: the reason why I'm here is because tryke, an online friend, has a sister who works in this big fashion school, and...and they gave me a scholarship, so, now I'm here, living with my cousin, and...tryke and i..we're hanging out.

Iamblake: is this...true?

Itsmeserena: yes.

Iamblake: serena

Itsmeserena: blake, I told u it would never work out between us. Don't hold your life back for me, just..just go on.

Itsmeserena has logged off.

And Blake, sitting there on his own, felt the tears rushing out of his eyes, as if someone took his heart and didn't bring it back.

The Broken Road

"This is it," Minerva told Serena as they were standing near a cliff's edge in the Vineyard that Minerva owned, "This is where he died."

Serena looked at the cliff then at Minerva, feeling sad about the awful memory Minerva will always have in mind. Her husband, Ricardo, died here six years ago. "I'm really sorry." Serena said.

Minerva shook her head, tears filling up her eyes, "It was...really awful. An accident...Of everything that could happen, there was an accident. He just, just slipped off the edge, they say. They found him down there..."

"Did you ever ask for an autopsy?"

"There was no reason to," She said, "It was an accident. He was here, alone...He was, he was supposed to meet some people, I think, though he didn't really tell me. He does his meetings here, most days...And besides, I trusted everyone here, no one would ever think of killing him. He was a good guy."

Serena just nodded her head.

"I shouldn't cry anymore, you know?" Minerva said, But every single time I go here, the memory just...comes back. I wish I could've done something, but then again, life happens."

"Have you ever thought of selling this property?"

"Yeah, but, same thing with the house, there are also some good memories here...And, he worked hard to achieve this so...it would be an insult to his memory if I ever sold it."

Scars

"She must be so brave going through all these," Serena told Tryke later that afternoon while they were having coffee, "I know it has been six years but...But there are some things that will always hurt, right? And God, just seeing her there, in that cliff, it broke my heart..."

Tryke wasn't saying anything.

"Are you listening?"

"Yes," He answered, staring ahead, "It's devastating, what she went through...No one should go through that again."

She bit her lip, "Have you ever been friends with Minerva and Ricardo?"

He looked at her, "Yeah. They were really nice people."

"Were there ever no suspects? Was it really an accident?"

"It was an accident," Tryke said hurriedly, "And if something really happened, it wasn't...it was an accident. People here respect Ricardo too much, and no one has grudges with him or Minerva. If something happened that day, and if people did see Ricardo falling down, I know they wanted to help him...It was just that, maybe, they weren't able to. But who knows? Maybe, up to this day, the scars of the past still haunt them, maybe, their conscience still ain't allowing them to sleep well at night." He took a deep breath, "Anyway...you're starting fashion school tomorrow, must be excited, huh?"

She smiled, "I am, a lot, actually."

"I'd pick you up tomorrow after class, would you like that?"

She smiled, "That would be wonderful."

I hate this part

"Hello? Tito Mark?" Blake spoke on the phone with his uncle, weeks after that conversation with Serena online. "Yes, yes," Blake said, "I'm really sorry it took me a while to consider your offer but...uhm...Yes, I'm getting it. I'm going there."

"Are you sure about this?" Mike asked Blake after that phone call.

"I have to, man," Blake said, "I have t star over."

Mike tapped him on the shoulder, "Goodluck."

Come pick me up

It's been weeks since Serena started fashion school. She was doing well, getting along with some people, enjoying the lessons. That afternoon, she was getting out of the building with a new friend, Lottie, to wait for those who would pick them up. For Serena, it was Tryke, while for Lottie, it was her sister.

"I'd actually like you to meet her," Lottie told Serena, "You'd probably get along." She smiled.

"I'd love to." Serena smiled back.

Seconds later, a maroon corvette honked its horn near them.

"Oh, that's her!" Lottie exclaimed, as her sister, a beautiful woman in her late 20's, with her hair in curls, wearing a Black and White polka-dotted dress and Black pumps walked up to them.

Lottie kissed her sister on the cheek, "Leah, I'd like you to meet Serena, my classmate."

Leah. Serena thought, Could she be Tryke's ex? "Hi," Serena held out her hand for a handshake.

Lean smiled lightly and shook her hand, "Hi, Serena." She said, "If I'm not mistaken, you're a friend of Tryke's, aren't you?"

"How did you know?"

"Oh, uh, weeks back, I was driving by that coffee shop, Cicero de Luna, and I saw you with him."

"Oh."

Just then, a Black Porsche pulled up. It was Tryke's car. He went out and found the girls by the roadside.

"What's going on?" He said as he gave Serena a peck on the cheek then saw Leah, "You...what..."

Leah pointed to Lottie, "She's my sister, she's studying here. What can I do?" She said, "Small world, huh?"

"You okay?" Tryke asked Serena.

"Yeah, I'm fine, don't worry..."

"You worry too much, Timothy," Leah said, "We were just being introduced."

"Yeah, she's right," Serena said, "Nothing was happening."

Tryke nodded his head and took a deep breath, "We uhm...we have to go." He said, "Drive safely, Leah."

"You too." Leah said.

***

"You okay?" Serena asked Tryke as he was driving, "You aren't speaking..."

"I'm okay," Tryke answered, "Just surprised to see Leah there..."

"She's beautiful."

Tryke smiled lightly, "I can't believe Lottie's grown up. And studying at that school, too...Of all schools..."

"Relax," Serena said, "She's a nice girl. And...besides, it's the top fashion school here, you can't blame her."

"Serena, if anything happens and Leah says something or...whatever, tell me, will you?"

She nodded her head, "Yeah, sure. But don't worry, I don't think she's gonna do anything..."

"Just tell me, okay?"

"I will, don't worry."

Talk show on mute

"You knew that Lottie was enrolled in your school and you didn't tell me?" Tryke said as he was talking to Marcela later that night.

"Because I knew you would react that way." Marcela said, fixing her hair.

"Marcie,"

"Timothy, you are over-reacting," She said, "Okay. If you must know, I didn't want her to be in the school, too, but she's an exceptional student, and I cannot just tell anyone to sabotage her stay there, or do something to expel her." She went on, "And, Timothy, even if she's Leah's sister, it doesn't matter. She has nothing to do with you two. She's barely a teen when...when it happened."

Tryke sighed, "I just have no idea what to say."

"If you're worried about Serena, don't be, I'll handle it..." She said, "At least for now."

***

"I figured you would call..." Leah said as she heard Tryke's voice on the other line.

"You planned this, didn't you? You wanted Lottie to study there and—"

"It was her own decision," Leah cut him off, "I can't tell her to go find another school to enroll in just because my ex-boyfriend's sister is working there...Oh, and just because my ex's new girl is there."

Tryke sighed, "I like Serena."

"I know," Leah said, "Saw you weeks ago at the coffee shop..." She paused, "Does she know the truth?"

"No, not yet," Tryke answered, "How about your boyfriend?"

"Fiancé, Timothy, Fiancé."

"You didn't answer my question. Does he know?"

"Depends on what your version of the truth is..."

"Oh, for heaven's sake, Leah, there's only one truth. We both know what it is."

"Well, then, I think you owe her the truth."

"Don't tell her anything," He said, "I'll do it in time."

Troubled Waters

The following day, Marcela called Serena to her office. She gave her a peck on the cheek and handed her an invitation to her wedding.

"I know it's early but, I don't wanna worry about the invites later on, so I'm giving them away..." Marcela smiled.

"I'm so grateful," Serena said, "But...you barely know me..."

"Oh, don't worry too much," Marcela said, "You're Timothy's friend and I like you, so, why not come?"

Serena smiled, "Thank you."

Marcela nodded her head. "So..." She said, sitting down, "Timothy told me you've met Leah..."

"Yes, yesterday," Serena said, "I didn't know she was Lottie's sister..."

Marcela took a deep breath, "Serena," she asked, "Do you trust my brother?"

"Yes, of course," Serena said, "He's a nice guy, and without him, without you guys, I wouldn't be here..."

"Listen, Serena," Marcela said, "My brother...he's...he's a good guy. There may have been mishaps in his life, but...but that doesn't change the fact that he is a good person. And...and I just want you to know that."

"Marcela,"

"Whatever happens, promise me, you'll listen to my brother and listen intently." Marcela said, "And...if the day comes that Leah might tell you something, ask Timothy first. Because...Because between the two of them, it's Timothy you should trust more."

***

That conversation in Marcela's office left Serena confused. She went home directly that night and found Minerva setting the table for dinner.

"Hey," Minerva greeted, giving her a peck on the cheek, "Just in time, the Lasagna's almost ready."

Serena smiled, 'Uhm, Mini, can I ask you something?"

"What is it?" Minerva said, taking out the Lasagna from the oven.

"Have you and...uhm...Tryke ever been close?"

"Timothy?" She stopped and looked at Serena for a while before answering, "Well, yes...Yes, but he's closer to Ricardo."

"Oh." Serena muttered.

"Why?"

"Nothing,'

"Nothing?"

"No, not really," Serena said, "It's just that...Well, Marcela told me something about...About I don't know, but its seems like Tryke is hiding something from me...And Leah, his ex, knows it too...Do you have any idea?"

"No," Minerva said silently, "Well...maybe it had something to do with him going to Wales back then and the break-up with Leah, but I have no idea what it was about. All I know," She said, "is that Timothy is a good guy." She took a deep breath, "I haven't seen him in a while, though...Actually, haven't seen him much since Ricardo died. He went to the funeral, crying, shaking...I think he was very much affected by his death, as well."

Serena just nodded her head.

"I think," Minerva said, "you should just wait for him to tell you whatever he has to tell you, in his own time, in his own terms..."

"Thanks."

Minerva smiled lightly, "Come, let's eat."

Party in the U.S.A.

"So, this is what you'll do," Blake's uncle, Mark, was telling him during his first day of work at this Hollywood studio he owns. Blake's now in the US, trying to start fresh. "You'd help us out in editing the videos, and calling the talents. You see, we're making a new TV show, with most of the stars from our most successful movie—yet," He tapped Blake on the shoulder, "The people are clamoring for it, so we'll give them what they want..."

Just then, a very beautiful woman in her 20's, with light blonde hair in curls, up-to-the moment clothes, Christian Loubotin heels, and an aura that said "hot" and nothing but came inside the studio. She caught everyone's attention. Blake would recognize that face in an instant. It was Paulee Anderson, top model, heiress to the Anderson fortune, and Hollywood's newest "It girl."

"And here she comes," Mark told Blake, "our star..."

"Hello, Mark," Paulee greeted, giving him a peck on the cheek.

"Hey, Lovely," Mark greeted back, "How's your day?"

"Good," Paulee said, "Except that that that Beatrice person is pestering me...Why not just take her off the show?"

"Sweetie, she has her own fanbase..."

"Oh, please." Paulee said sarcastically and laughed. She then noticed Blake, "Who is this?" She asked Mark.

"Oh, Paulee, this is my nephew, Blake, he just arrived from the Philippines yesterday," Mark introduced, "Blake, you know her, Paulee Anderson."

"Hi," Blake said, motioning for a handshake.

Paulee just smiled, "Hello," She said vaguely. "Oh, well, I have to go to the make-up room...Oh, and Blake? I'm inviting you to my birthday party tomorrow night. Wait for the limo outside this studio by 9pm. I'll see you."

"Wh-what?" But before Blake could say anything else, Paulee was already inside the make-up room. Blake looked at Mark, "Did she mean that?"

Mark nodded his head, "You should go there tomorrow." He said, "Remember to get on her good side. She's our star."

"What?"

"You heard me, Blake," Mark said, "Just do whatever she said."

***

The next evening, Blake waited for the limousine outside the studio. By 8:30, it was there. A driver went down and spoke, "Blake Rodriguez?"

"Uh, yes..." Blake said, rummaging his pocket for an ID. He handed it to the driver.

The driver opened one of the doors of the limo and let him in, "Get in," The driver said, "Miss Anderson's waiting."

***

The party was...heavy. Blake thought as he sat in a booth on the corner, away from everyone. There were too many people, too many cameras, loud sounds from the speakers, people dancing everywhere. The lights were blinding him. He felt like he wanted to be anywhere but there.

Minutes later, someone opened the door to the booth, "Oh, there you are," Paulee said, wearing a pink flowy top and short shorts. "I've been looking for you."

"Hey," He said, feeling like his tux was too formal for the occasion, "Happy birthday..."

She laughed, her blonde curls tumbling down. She sat beside him, "Why are you sulking here?"

"No, no, I wasn't, I was just..."

"Shying away from everyone?"

Blake smiled a bit, "I just didn't know anyone..."

"You look cute, you know?"

"Uh," Blake said unsurely, "Thanks..."

"Sweetheart, you look tense. Chill, it's just me."

"Uhm, Paulee, your friends may be looking for you, I'm just...I'm fine here..."

"Oh, don't worry about them, they can take care of themselves..."

"Uhm,"

"You wanna go somewhere else?"

"What?"

"Come," She said, grabbed him by the arm and led him to the back of the bar, going up the stairs.

"Paulee," He said.

"Just trust me," She said, leading him. Soon enough, she was opening a door of a room and she led him inside. She pushed him on bed.

"What are you doing?" Blake asked.

She then started unbuttoning her top, "Is this good enough for you?"

"Hey, hey, hey, hold it," He said, "Stop..."

"Why? Don't you want this?"

"Paulee, you're probably just drunk—"

She then kissed him, "Is that good enough?"

"Paulee,"

"Be a good boy, Blake, and I'll stay with the studio..."

"What?"

"You heard me," She said, "if you want your uncle's studio to go bankrupt, you can get out of here now..."

Oh, crap, Blake muttered in his mind.

***

"Here's Mr OMG," Peter, one of Blake's co-workers said as he came in the studio the following morning.

"Excuse me?" Blake said.

His uncle Mark laughed and held him by the shoulders, "You're on OMG, man, showbiz site..." He then pointed to the monitor of Peter's computer and Blake saw pictures of himself and Paulee while inside the booth, and another one going up to the room. Paulee's newest escapade, it said on top, in bright, bold letters.

"Holy shit." Blake muttered, "I'm really sorry, I—"

"Hey, what's there to be sorry for?" Mark said, "You did good, son, you did good."

"W-what?"

"Don't you get it?" Mark asked, "Paulee likes you! She fancies you, and the more she likes you and the more you stay with her, the more she stays with us in return. Keep her close, and never, ever get on her bad side, okay?"

What have I gotten myself into? Blake muttered silently, sighing heavily.

***

missg: finally! i've been waiting for u to log on

itsmeserena: g? hey...what's goin on?

Missg: read this http://omg.yahoo.com/paulees-newest-escapade

Itsmeserena: what in the world?

Missg: just read it.

Itsmeserena: fine.

Serena clicked on the link and gasped at what she saw.

Paulee's New Escapade

Top socialite and today's hottest young actress, Paulee Anderson, has found herself a real treat.

Last night, during her birthday celebration at the Palm Springs hotel, she was found with a guy, apparently named Blake Rodriguez who works for the studio that produces her TV show, In Ruins, who apparently is her newest flame, making out at a booth at the bar.

"He's really special," Paulee said, when asked by reporters hours after her party, "And I think this is it. Well...who knows?"

Looks like P finally met her match...Or has she?

Itsmeserena: oh God.

Missg: see? Shocking huh? He's in LA and now he's in these showbiz sites!

Itsmeserena: why am I even surprised? he's bound to do it, anyway.

Missg: well, what if it's not what we think it is?

Itsmeserena: what?

Missg: what if...if he was forced to do it or something?

Itsmeserena: oh gina, u seriously don't believe what you're talking about, do u?

Missg: but...what if?

Itsmeserena: i don't wanna think about it. He did what he did, and I shouldn't even care.

Iamblake has logged on.

Itsmeserena: now the devil's on..

Missg: talk to him!

Iamblake: serena?

Itsmeserena: he typed my name.

Missg: come on, talk to him.

Itsmeserena: sigh. Fine, wait a sec.

Iamblake: serena, hey.

Itsmeserena: hey you... I read the article on omg.

Iamblake: no u didn't.

Itsmeserena: yes, I just did.

Iamblake: holy shit. Serena, let me explain, it's not what u think...

Itsmeserena: it is what it is.

Iamblake: no, serena, listen, she was just..she invited me to her birthday, she was pretty drunk and I was in that booth, alone, she went in and asked me to go with her to another room...then she began to...to go wild. But believe me, nothing happened, just...just a couple of kisses, she was too drunk to go do anything else, anyway. And...I wouldn't have wanted anything to happen. It's just that she's the star of this show we're producing and...and everyone's telling me to go get on her good side, know what I mean? But I don't like her.

Itsmeserena: blake, it's impossible not to like her, she's Paulee Anderson.

Iamblake: I don't care about that, serena, pls, believe me, it was nothing.

Itsmeserena: u don't have to explain anything. We both know this was gonna happen at some point, that's why I've always told u we had no future together. Imagine if we tried being in a relationship and this happened!

Iamblake: serena!

Itsmeserena: oh, well, I have to go, blake, I have something important to go to tomorrow. Enjy your time with paulee.

Itsmeserena has logged off.

Itsmeserena: gina? I just went invi...

Missg: what happened?

Itsmeserena: nothing. I told him I didn't care.

Missg: oh, u bloody do.

Itsmeserena: shut up.

Missg: you're jealous, aren't u?

Itsmeserena: why should I be? I'm headin to bed. Goodnight.

And Serena turned off her messenger, turned on the radio, and didn't sleep much that night.

The Show

"And this is an interpretation of Queen Anne Boleyn, cubist-mode," Tryke told Serena while they were at the art gallery the next afternoon, "You know, the artist who made this is quite talented. He's only 19 and he's this talented! Wow, you should..." He then noticed that Serena was barely listening and was just glancing at everything and nothing at the same time, "Serena?" He said as he turned to look at her, "Are you listening?"

Serena looked at him, as if woken from a trance, "Yeah, yeah, sorry, I was just..."

"Thinking of something?"

"Nothing, serious, really," she said, "uhm...I just...uhm...one of my... friends was featured on OMG last night...You know, the gossip site..."

"Wow, showbiz gossip site, right? Must be an actor or an actress, I suppose?"

"Oh, no, no," She answered, "He's just...working in this Hollywood studio and...uhm...working with Paulee Anderson....and now they're supposedly...dating."

"Oh," he muttered, leading her to sit on the couch beside him. He sat down, as well, "and that affects you?"

"Of course not," She said, in a tone that said anything but, "Blake and I were never anything...We were just...friends. Just friends." She sighed and then, "Okay, well, we briefly dated just before I left the Philippines but that was that...I told him we weren't meant to be. I'm sorry I didn't tell you before but...It's...nothing. It didn't mean too much, really."

"It's okay," He said and smiled a bit.

"Imagine if we got together and this happened! It'll just break me..."

"Doesn't this break you now?"

She looked at him for a while and then, "No," She said, "It's...it's quite...uhm...I don't know, unnerving that he's featured in a gossip site, but that's it..." She went on and held him by the arm, "You know what? Let's go see a movie or something...Nothing with Paulee Anderson, of course, but...come one. My treat."

He just laughed, "Whatever you say..." He said.

Cigarettes and Chocolate Milk

Blake checked his cellphone as it beeped while he was having a conversation with the guys in the studio.

Come to my house now. Need u here. I'll text the details.

"What is it?" Peter asked.

"Paulee wants me to go to her house...Like, right now."

"Then go," Erik said, "It's an order." He laughed and the other guys did, too.

"Yeah, well..." Blake said, "Fine. See you 'round."

***

If there was really something enormous, it was Paulee's house. The truth is, it wasn't just a house—it was, by all means, a mansion. It looked pretty much like Caleb Nichols' mansion in The OC—a grand fountain greeting you in front, a couple of floors, grand landscaping...Blake couldn't believe his eyes. A maid led him in and told him that Paulee was at the veranda and told him how to go there. When Blake arrived at the veranda, she found Paulee, sitting on a foldable chair, legs stretched in front of her, looking distraught. She looked up and saw him.

"Hey," She greeted, a little smile on her face. "Sit down." She said and he sat down on the chair beside her. "Don't worry," She went on, "I'm not gonna do anything...drastic or something. I'm...I'm really sorry for what I did on my birthday, well, not about the kiss, you were a good kisser, but...I may have come on too strong..."

"Don't mention it..."

"Look," she said, "I know I may have seemed like a complete whore. Or bitch. Or whatever...And maybe, I am. But the truth is...The truth is, I'm just a sad girl. My parents are never around, the only guy I ever loved went off with someone else because he had gotten her pregnant...I've never been in a working relationship for the past two years..." She sighed and then, "And...and I thought you were just like those other guys...Then I realized you were different. You are different. " She paused and went on, "And that's when I knew what I've wanted all along." She looked at him, "I need a friend. I'm just needing a friend. And I'm really sorry for being awful, and for saying all these but—"

"It's okay," Blake said, understanding her, seeing the depth in her otherwise obnoxious personality, "I get it." He smiled lightly, "We can...We can be friends." He told her, "Thank you, for saying all of that. Well, I can't promise you that I'll be perfect but...but I can be a friend."

And then she smiled.

***

Days passed and Blake and Paulee hung out at times, but there was nothing there. Most of the time, she just kept on crying about her first love, or her parents, or how tired she is of pretending everything's okay. He was there—to console her, hug her, give some words of advice if needed. One afternoon, as Blake went to Paulee's dressing room to give her a cup of coffee, she noticed that she was drinking something from her black flask, probably alcohol. She went up to her, placed down the cup of coffee on the desk near Paulee and spoke.

"Are you drinking?" He asked.

"Hey," She said, hurriedly losing the flask.

"Paulee, you're at work."

"I was just..."

He sighed, "Okay, listen," He said, "Why don't you come over to my place later? I'll cook something for you. No alcohol."

She laughed a little, "O...kay..." She said.

He smiled a bit, "I'll come back in two hours to pick you up, okay?"

"Yeah," She nodded, "Sure."

"Okay."

"Blake," She said, "Thank you."

He smiled, "Don't mention it."

***

"I know it's not as big as your place," Blake told Paulee that evening while they were walking to his dining room, "But it's home...At least, here."

"Is it really home?" Paulee asked.

Blake laughed as he pulled out a chair for her, "No," He said, "A house is not a home." He said, "But it's what I have right now so..."

She nodded her head as he opened the dishes on the table: Roasted chicken, Caesar salad, Mojos... "Did you really make all of these?" She asked.

"I sure did," He answered, cutting a piece of chicken for her, "Perks of having a restaurateur back in the Philippines as a bestfriend." He smiled.

"Wow, that's amazing..." She said and bit a piece of chicken, "Wow. This is really good."

He smiled, "It's a special recipe. Glad you liked it."

She smiled, "Blake," She said, "Why are you doing this?"

He took a deep breath, "Well," He said, "Let's just say I've been there, too. I thought alcohol was my friend, but really, Paulee, who are we kidding? The next morning, you wake up and your head just aches like hell, you feel nauseatic and the problem's still there..." He went on, "So, I thought sharing your thoughts with a friend would be better."

She smiled, "Thank you."

"No worries." He smiled back.

"Can I ask you one more thing?"

"Fire away."

"While we were walking, I noticed a picture of yours in your living room...You know, the one with that pretty girl..." She said, "Who is she?"

"Oh, that..." He muttered, "She's Serena."

"Girlfriend?" She smiled and asked, "Or did I ruin something?"

"No, no," He answered, "She's not my girlfriend...We just...uhm, dated, for some time, back in the Philippines. Nothing more...I do love her, but...But she went off to Italy and said it would never work out between us."

"Oh," She muttered, "I'm sorry."

He shook his head, "Oh, well, love's crazy."

She laughed, "You still love her, don't you?"

He hesitated for a moment and then, "Yes," He said, "It's crazy coz I haven't known her for a long time, but she just...She's different. I love her."

She smiled, "You know what I think?"

"What?"

"That she's a complete fool for letting you go."

He smiled, "I don't know about that..." He said, "Let's just eat."

Can't go back now

Serena was standing by a cocktail table by herself while Lottie was entertaining some friends. Serena wasn't a big fan of parties, but since Lottie just turned 19 and she didn't wanna make a fuss about Leah being there. And speaking about the devil, Leah just came walking up to her, a glass of martini in one hand.

"Hey," Leah greeted, "Serena, right?"

Serena smiled a bit, "Yes," She said, "Hi."

Leah sipped some martini, "So...you and Tryke?"

"Oh, no, no," Serena answered, "We're dating, but...uhm...that's it...for now."

Leah smiled at something she found amusing, "He's a good guy, you know?"

Serena smiled back, "He is."

"Do you ever wonder if there's something he's not telling you?"

"Leah," She said, "I may not have known him for as much as you do, but...I do trust him. If there's something I should know, he could've told me already."

"Right," Leah said, "Well, there are some things we'd rather keep to ourselves, huh? But you know what I think, Serena? If he really loves you, then he owes you the truth."

Before Serena could say anything, Leah's boyfriend came by and gave Leah a kiss on the lips.

"Hi," The boyfriend then saw Serena. Serena merely waved at him.

"Oh, Vicente," Leah said, "This is Serena. Serena, Vicente, my boyfriend." Leah then turned to Vicente, "I was just telling her to go enjoy the party...and be ready for some surprises."

"Oh!" Vicente exclaimed, "Lottie does love surprises, yes."

Leah smiled, "Anyway, we have to get going. See you, later, Serena."

***

Tryke picked Serena up from the party by 11:30pm. She went inside his car and talked for a while.

"How was it?" He asked, "Did Leah bother you?"

She shook her head, "Well," She said, "She told me that...That if you really loved me, you would tell me the truth, whatever that was."

Tryke hurriedly parked the car.

"Tryke?"

He looked at her, "I love you, okay?"

"You don't have to—"

"I mean it," He said, "I love you. I do. And...and if there are some things I can't talk about right now, it's only because...Because I love you too much to let all these go to waste."

She looked at him, "I love you, too." She said.

"You do?"

"Yeah," She said unsurely, "I...I do. Tryke you are a good guy, I'd be a fool not to give it a go. Not to give us a go."

He smiled and kissed her on the forehead, "I love you, Serena," He said. Seconds later, their lips met. Serena wanted to find that electric feeling, that spark...but there was none. Oh, well, maybe it doesn't happen anymore, She thought.

"I love you." He said again.

She smiled meekly, "I love you, too."

Roll the credits

Iamblake: hey...it's late where u are, why are u up?

Itsmeserena: don't ask.

Iamblake: sorry.

Itsmeserena: read the newest articles about u and paulee...

Iamblake: serena, it's not what u think.

Itsmeserena: I told u u don't have to explain anything to me, blake.

Iamblake: but I want to. Serena, she's jus a friend. I know she seems like this, this total bitch, and yes, that is her exterior, but she is a good person. she's just...sad. Needing a friend.

Itsmeserena: well...goodluck, blake.

Iamblake: how are u?

Itsmeserena: good. Never been better. Tryke and I are...are a couple now.

Iamblake: you're what?

Itsmeserena: a couple.

Iamblake: oh.

Itsmeserena: that's it? Oh?

Iamblake: congrats.

Itsmeserena: thanks.

Iamblake: are u happy?

Itsmeserena: of course I am.

Iamblake: serena

Itsmeserena: I need to go, blake. Goodnight. Take care and...goodluck to u and paulee. Tell her I said hi.

Itsmeserena has logged off.

Jar of hearts

Blake drove and drove. He wanted to get away from it all, wanted to forget that Serena just told him she was with another man, wanted to make himself believe that it was gonna be okay, though honestly, he wasn't sure how. He then found himself in Paulee's house, rung the doorbell and had the maid tell him that Paulee was in the den, watching movies. He went to the den and didn't know what to say until Paulee saw him.

"Hey," She greeted, standing up from her chair, "Blake? Were you crying? Are you okay?" She went up to him.

He wasn't able to say anything. Instead, he just started sobbing painfully. Sad, painful sobs that shook his whole body. He stood there, in front of her, crying like a child.

"Hey, hey, hey, sweetie," Paulee said as she wrapped her arms around him, "What happened?"

"I love her, P," He said, "I just love her...so much."

Paulee hugged him even more, "Ssh...it's gonna be okay, Blake, its gonna be okay..."

***

Missg: you silly girl.

Itsmeserena: oh wow, what a greeting, gina.

Missg: blake and I had a chat. He told me about u and tryke!

Itsmeserena: oh the blabbermouth.

Missg: so, it's true? U and tryke?

Itsmeserena: yes.

Missg: and you're happy?

Itsmeserena: of course. Why won't I be?

Missg: oh, bloody hell, serena, don't act as if I don't know u. I can actually picture u right now, looking drained as if you don't even wanna talk about this.

Itsmeserena: psychic much?

Missg: I'm your friend. I know u.

Itsmeserena: fine.

Missg: serena, if you're not happy, then why'd you say yes to him?

Itsmeserena: bec he's a good guy.

Missg: can u even hear yourself right now?

Itsmeserena: gina, I don't wanna talk about this.

Missg: whatever. Btw, your mom called me.

Itsmeserena: called u? why?

Missg: she says...she misses u. and that she wishes u were back home.

Itsmeserena: whoa.

Missg: ikr? Weird, but...I think u should call her.

Itsmeserena: yeah, well...I guess so.

Missg: oh, and serena?

Itsmeserena: yeah?

Missg: pls don't make yourself more miserable. U know what I mean.

Itsmeserena: g, tryke and i...it'll work out.

Missg: not bec you're in the same place and he's a good guy does it mean it's gonna work out. U love blake, I know.

Itsmeserena: no u don't.

Missg: oh shut it. I should go. Go call your mom. Ttyl.

Itsmeserena: thanks, g.

***

"Mom?" Serena said as her mother, in the Philippines, picked up her phone.

"Sweetheart!" Her mom exclaimed. She had never called Serena "Sweetheart" in years. "I'm so glad you called..."

"Yeah, well, about that...is something goin on? Gina said you wanted to talk to me..."

"Oh, nothing, Serena," Her mom answered, "I just...I miss you, sweetie, I wish you were here."

She misses me? She never misses me. "Mom," Serena said, "Are you okay?"

"Yes, sweetie, I just...I want you to know that I love you. And that... And that...you are the best daughter anyone could ever have, I'm so sorry I never told you that before."

What the hell is going on? "Mom, it's okay, I...love you,too."

"Oh, sweetheart!" Her mom sobbed.

"Mom, are you okay?"

"Yes, honey," She said, "How are you?"

"I'm...good," Serena answered, "Tryke and I are together now..."

"The Italian man?"

"Yes, him."

"Oh, dear..."

"Mom, what's wrong?"

"Nothing, sweetie, it's just...Blake came over weeks back, before he left for the US..."

"Blake? Blake Rodriguez? You know Blake?"

"Not until he came over here, no..."

"He went there?" Serena asked, shocked, "What did he do?"

"Oh, nothing, honey, he just returned one of your possessions..." She sobbed again.

"What? What is it?"

"It's this old photo scrapbook you have...You know, the one with your messages and stuff..."

"Oh, God, no..."

"...And I didn't really open it til a few days ago and it just made me cry...Sweetheart, I'm so sorry for everything. We love you, I love you...And now that you're there, it's just...I'm sorry we didn't give you a chance, you know what I mean? Sorry we pushed you too hard, we didn't see you for you..."

"It's okay, mom."

"No, sweetie," Her mom said, "We know it's not, and when you come home, I promise, things will be different..."

"Mom, you really don't have to—"

"I love you, sweetheart."

"I love you, too."

"Anyway, I thought you and Blake would find a way to be together...He told me he loves you, you know? The guy is an angel, Serena, but if you're happy with this Italian guy, then I can't force you to be with Blake...I just really wish that you are truly happy..."

"I am, mom, don't worry..." Serena said, trying to convince her mom and herself, as well. "Mom, I have to go, okay? I'll talk to you soon."

"Okay, sweetheart, thanks for the call...Take care, okay?"

"You too, mom. Say hello to everyone for me."

"I will."

"Bye, mom."

"Bye, sweetheart."

Serena couldn't believe her ears. Blake went to see her mom and told her that he loves Serena? He loves her. It was crazy. No one has ever done that before. Why didn't anyone tell her? But, well, what difference would it make, right? She wanted to leave. She then got her laptop and started making an e-mail.

To: blake

From: serena

Re: old photos

Hello blake.

I know this comes as a surprise, but well, I have been surprised just a few minutes ago, too...I had a conversation with my mom and she told me that you went there weeks ago, before you left for the states and gave them my old scrapbook...To be honest, I would've been mad, I mean, that is my property but...I can't be. I mean, it was probably the most decent conversation I've had with my mom in...ages. She called me sweetheart and told me that she loved me! I was...in shock. She never said those words in years, and, it's insane but it's like, it's all I ever wanted. You have no idea how those words melted my heart...

All I'm saying is...Thank you, Blake. I...yeah, it means a lot. Really. I wish I could make it up to you.

So, yeah. That's it. Take care, Blake...and...goodluck. With everything.

Sweet and Low

Tryke and Serena decided to join Marcela and her fiancé, Anton for Sunday brunch. They were all having an animated discussion, but Serena felt like she didn't belong there. Like, all she wanted was to be somewhere else.

"I can't believe the wedding's next week!" Marcela blurted out, "It feels surreal..."

Anton laughed, "Mi amor, you make me love you more."

"Aww, amor, you are the best."

"Really sorry about these lovebirds here..." Tryke told Serena.

Serena smiled, "Well, you can't blame them," She said, "They're getting married..."

"Oh, so you two," Anton said, "Getting married next year?"

"Anton, don't ask them that!" Marcela said and turned to Serena and Tryke, "I'm really sorry, he could get so lovey-dovey at times..."

"It's okay..." Serena smiled.

"You know," Anton said, "You two look good together. You can actually use the villa for your reception next year..."

They laughed again.

"Oh, well, I should go get the Rhubarb pie..." Marcela said.

"Oh, let me help you..." Serena said and they stood up to go to the kitchen.

Serena and Marcela were cutting the pie in the kitchen when Serena spoke.

"Marcie," She said, "How do you know if someone's the right one?"

Marcela looked at her, "Well, it's different for everybody...but in the end, you just know." She smiled, "Are you worried about you and Timothy?"

"Well, I..."

"Listen, sweetie," Marcela said, "I'm not entirely sure how things will go for you both. But...I know he loves you. If it works out, it works out. If it doesn't...then it just means someone else is meant for you, and for him, as well."

"Thanks..."

Marcela just smiled, "Come on, let's get out of here, they're probably starving..."

Dirty Little Secret

Serena couldn't help but smile as she saw how happy Anton and Marcela were during their wedding. They were glowing with happiness. They were...undeniably made for each other. Everything was perfect, from the service in the church, to the reception. It was flawless.

Serena wondered if ever she'd achieve that kind of happiness, or peace. Or how would things be like during her wedding.

"Wanna go by the seashore?" Tryke asked, disrupting her thoughts.

"Yeah," She smiled lightly, "Sure."

Minutes later, they were talking by the shore when Tryke paused.

"Tryke? You okay?"

He looked at her, "Serena, I love you."

"I love you, too—"

"No, wait, I have to tell you something."

"What is it?"

He took a deep breath and then, "Serena, do you know why I got this scar?" He asked, holding up his arm.

"No, I mean, it did intrigue me, but you don't have to tell me if..."

"I want to," He said, "I have to. It's the truth."

"The...truth?"

"Serena, that day....Six years ago when...when Ricardo died, I was there."

"W-what?"

"It was an accident," Tryke recounted, his voice shaking, "Leah and I came to see him because he was preparing a surprise for Minerva...He wanted Leah to create a painting of the vineyard, and me to create a sculpture...We were talking and then...And then he slipped...He stepped on this rock and he was falling down. I tried to save him, I got this scar but...but his hand slipped out of mine and—"

"I knew it," Someone cried from behind them. It was Minerva, her eyes full of tears, "I always thought you knew something! It was the reason why you never came by the house again, why you got that mysterious scar, why you went to Wales...I'm so stupid not to have called you on it—"

"Minnie, listen, it was an accident," He said, "When...when everybody else came, Leah and I were hiding and she told me to run, go to the car, drive away. She acted like she just came and that we knew nothing. We were...we were very scared, we didn't know what to do. I didn't want to be in jail, it was an accident, I—"

"You liar!" Minerva said, pounding him on the chest, "How could you?! Why didn't you tell me before? You...you and Leah, I trusted both of you and you did this?!"

"Minnie," Serena said, her eyes welling up with tears, too.

"Fuck you, Timothy!" Minerva said, "Fuck you!"

"Minerva, I'm sorry, I didn't...I'm sorry, I was a coward..."

Minerva then ran away.

"Minnie!" Serena called out then looked at Tryke. "How could you?" She muttered.

"I'm really sorry..." Tryke said, sobbing, as well.

Serena then ran away, without knowing where to go.

Chasing Cars

Later that evening, a drunk Serena went to Tryke's house and pounded heavily on the door.

"Come out, you bastard!" Serena shouted, "Talk to me!"

Tryke opened the door, looking disturbed, as well, "Serena?" He said, "Come in..." He held her by the arms.

"Don't fuckin' hold me!"

He led her in and closed the door behind them, "Serena, I'm really...sorry. Please...Please calm down."

"You liar!" She screamed, "Do you know how hard it was for me to get my life back, huh? Do you know how I went down the drain, lost everything I ever had, lost myself because of lies? Do you know how I started lying to myself, too? I was gonna be on top, you know? I was gonna rule the world and then things just went downhill..." She was crying, "Then I met you, I went here, things looked better again...I dropped everything I ever had down, just for you. I left Blake, Goddammit! I chose you and now what do I get?!"

"I'm sorry," He said, crying, as well, "Serena, I'm sorry. It was an accident...We should've told everyone but...But we were young and stupid, and scared...It haunts me to this day..."

"I don't care if it haunts you!" She said, seething with anger, "How could you just sit there all along knowing Minerva's my cousin? How could you make me fall for you without telling me the truth first? I should've listened to Leah when she said you owed me the truth."

"Serena, it's not like that," He explained, "I was gonna tell you when we were just friends, then I found out she was your cousin and I was already falling for you and...It was complicated, I didn't know how to—"

"You're a coward, that's what you are!" She shouted, "I can't believe I chose you over Blake!"

"Serena,"

"I love him, hear that?!" She said, through tears, "I love him but I chose you. Stupid me, I always make the wrong decisions." And then she cried, not knowing if the pain in her heart would ever end. Then he hugged her, knowing he was already losing the girl she loves, one more time, because of the same reason she lost the first girl he ever loved years ago.

***

When Serena woke up hours later, it was already 2AM, and she found Tryke looking at her while sitting on the floor. She stood up from the couch.

"I'll walk you home," Tryke said, standing up as well.

"Don't," She said, "I can walk alone."

"I'm sorry..."

"Will you stop saying that?" Serena said, and sighed, "And...please don't follow me." She then went out of the house, slamming the door behind him.

You're my shooting star

Serena walked inside Minerva's house and found Minerva sitting on the sofa, looking at old pictures of Ricardo and crying.

"Minnie," She said as she put a hand on Minerva's shoulder.

"Don't..." Minerva said, muffling through the tears, "I...can't talk right now...Just...leave me alone first."

Serena nodded her head and fought back the tears. She went inside her room, sat down on bed, and felt too tired, but couldn't go to sleep. She turned on her laptop and logged on to yahoo messenger.

Itsmeserena: blake...

Iamblake: serena? Another late night?

Itsmeserena: I just wanna say I'm sorry for everything.

Iamblake: what? Are u okay?

Itsmeserena: I was a fool for letting you go. I shouldn't have.

Iamblake: serena, did something happen?

Itsmeserena: I can't talk about it now but...but blake, I'm really sorry. You're wonderful, and I'm so sorry I'm not perfect for you...but who knows? Maybe in another lifetime, right?

Iamblake: what? Serena, look, we can still fix this...

Itsmeserena: I'm not sure about that...I'm sorry I'm a coward, blake.

Itsmeserena has logged off.

***

The following morning, Serena was woken up by Minerva's screams.

"Son of a bitch! How thick of you to come here after yesterday!" Minerva screamed and threw away pots. Serena saw from her window that it was Tryke whom Minerva was shouting at. She hurriedly went down the stairs and went to Minerva.

"Minnie," She said, trying to pull her back.

"Minerva, I'm sorry, please, listen to me, it was all an accident—"

"I don't care if it was an accident!" Minerva shouted, "You kept the truth for so long! Goddamit! Get out of my house!" She then stormed her way back inside the house.

"Serena," Tryke said.

Serena sighed, "Go...go now." She told him, "We'll talk soon. Just leave, okay?"

"I'm sorry."

"Tryke, just...go."

***

Serena found Minerva by the lanai when she went back inside the house. Minerva was looking at the vines.

"Minnie, I'm sorry."

"It's not your fault," Minerva said, "I'm sorry you're caught in the middle of all of these..."

Serena shook her head and hugged her and felt the tears rushing once more.

"He was all I had, you know?" Minerva told her, crying, "I loved him so much and...And just when I thought I'd accepted it already, this happened."

"What...do you want me to do?"

Minerva looked at her, "That's up to you," Was all she could say.

How to break a heart

"Thank you for coming," Leah told Serena as they met up in a restaurant one evening.

"Say what you have to say." Serena muttered.

"Timothy loves you," Leah said, "He told me..."

"That's not what I wanted to talk about."

"I'm sorry," Leah muttered, "Serena, he never meant to lie. He just...couldn't tell you the truth because...because it's complicated."

"Is that really the truth? Or is there something I should still know?"

"That's it," Leah answered, "That's everything you should know. If you or Minerva must be mad at someone, be mad at me. It was my decision, I was scared, I had the world at my fingertips, I couldn't let an accident turn it downhill...We were there, we saw what happened, Timothy tried to rescue him but...but he fell down. We panicked, we didn't know what to do. So I thought, we must act like we knew nothing, it was easier than being questioned by the police and stuff...And it worked. All these years, it did."

"Did you ever think of how Minerva felt?"

"Of course," Leah answered, "But..."

"But you cared for yourself more."

"You can't call me out for that, Serena." Leah said, "When you're young and...and you have all these chances, you make decisions to save yourself." She went on, "And besides, you're lying to him, as well."

"Excuse me?"

"I know you don't love Timothy. I can see it in your eyes."

"That's not the case."

"Yeah?" Leah asked, "How different is it from him lying to you, or not telling you the truth?"

***

Serena was already in the cab on the way to the coffeeshop where she was meeting Tryke when her phone rang. It was Blake. She hesitated for a moment then decided to pick up.

"Hey," She greeted.

"Serena,"

"Hey you."

"How are you?"

"I'm...okay," She said, "Just went off a restaurant..."

"With your boyfriend?"

"No," She answered, "Actually...I'm gonna meet him in a few minutes and...and break up with him."

"What? Why? Did he do something? What happened? Are you okay?"

Serena laughed sadly, "It's crazy, isn't it? It's like, we all know what we want but we rarely go for it...We know what the truth is but we keep on being blindsided by all these stuff...And in the end, it still comes down to the truth."

"We can fix this," He said, "I love you."

She didn't know what to say, "I'll call you."

***

Tryke was waiting for Serena at the coffee shop. He saw her as she alighted from the taxi, and wanted to give her a hug but she opted not to. They sat down, and no one spoke for a few minutes.

"Serena,"

"I'm sorry, Tryke," She said, "I can't do this anymore...and...it's not just about you."

"Serena, I'm sorry."

"I'm sorry, too," She said, "But...I don't think I told you the whole truth, as well."

He looked confused.

"Tryke, you and I," She said, "are two intersecting lines...We may have met in the middle, but all roads would still lead us away from each other." She took a deep breath, "I thought I loved you...But I didn't. At least not in the way you love me. I chose you, yes, but...But Blake was always in my mind. I was stupid for not giving it a go with him. And—"

"I know you love him, I always knew...But I still love you."

She bit her lip, "I'm...sorry. I just cant do this anymore."

He nodded his head, "You wouldn't let me fight for you, would you?"

She shook her head, "You're better off with someone else. And...and I'm sorry if I took everything out on you. I was mad, yes, I mean, you did hide the truth, but honestly, I was hiding something, too. Or at least, I tried to."

"Serena," He said, reaching for her hand.

"Don't," She said, "I don't...I don't wanna remember us this way, you know? Because...you were special, Tryke, you know that. But I guess, that's about it."

"I'm sorry I ruined everything."

"No, you didn't," She said, "It just made me realize where I should go."

They looked at each other and understood.

Airplanes

"You know what you should do?" Paulee asked Blake while they were watching a movie that night after Blake called Serena.

"What?"

"Go to Italy."

"What?"

"Don't play deaf with me, Blake," Paulee said, "You should go follow her to Italy. It would be romantic! I'm sure you'd finally get together."

Blake looked at her, "You think?"

"It would be perfect. If you love her, you'd do anything to prove it."

Blake smiled, "The press would think I left you."

"Oh, let me handle the press," Paulee winked, "And...let me call my friends in the airport in a bit to get you there fast, probably tomorrow..."

"Should I call her first?"

"Well, yeah, you could...Or, you could just go and surprise her. That would be more romantic."

He laughed, "I like the way your mind works."

She laughed, as well, "Call me when you get there, okay?"

He smiled, "Thank you, P," He said, "For everything."

"No," Paulee said, "Thank you." She smiled.

***

With heavy steps, Serena went down the stairs of Minerva's house, holding her bags. She found Minerva by the foot of the stairs, looking at her.

"I'm really sorry," Serena said as she was standing in front of her.

Minerva shook her head, "I'm sorry, too." She said.

They hugged each other. "Are you sure you don't wanna come with me?" Serena asked.

"This is home," Minerva answered, "Well, maybe I'd go away for vacation sometime...but who knows what'll happen?"

Serena nodded her head, "I'll see you."

"Take care," Minerva said, "And good luck."

City of Angels

Serena alighted from the taxi. She was now in front of one of those Hollywood studios LA, where Blake was. She was still dizzy from the flight, jet-lagged a lot, but she needed to see him. She had to talk to him now.

"Excuse me," Serena spoke to the guard in front of the building, "Do you know if Blake Rodriguez is inside? I'm really sorry but I need to talk to him..."

"Oh, Blake isn't here," The guard answered, "He left..."

"Left?"

"What's going on?" A voice from behind her said. She turned around and saw a beautiful woman with blonde hair and that little voice she couldn't be mistaken she has heard somewhere before. The woman removed her shades.

"Paulee," Serena muttered.

"Oh my God," Paulee said, "Serena, right?"

Serena nodded her head, "I...I don't know why you know me, or the real deal between you and Blake, but I need to talk to him, please..."

"Oh, sweetie, Blake and I are just friends, I just needed a friend, don't believe everything you read..." Paulee said and then, "What are you doing here?"

"I came to see Blake. Can you let me in? Is he inside?"

"I'm sorry, dear, he's not here... He left hours back."

"Left? Where is he? At home?"

"He went to Italy..."

"Italy?" Serena asked, confused, "What?"

"He wanted to see you, to surprise you." Paulee said, "We didn't know you were planning to go here, too..."

"Yeah, it was quite a sudden decision..."

"Oh, God, you two have bad timing..." Paulee muttered. Just then, her cellphone rang. She took it from her bag and saw Blake's name register on screen. "It's him!" She exclaimed, "Wait a sec—" She answered the call, "Blake?"

"P!" Blake exclaimed, "I'm here, I'm in Italy, now all I need is to find a cab to take me to her place—"

"You won't find her there..."

"What?"

"Blake, she's here."

"She's...what?"

Paulee handed the phone over to Serena.

"Blake?" Serena spoke.

"Serena?!" Blake said, "Is that really you?"

"It's me..."

"Oh Lord," Blake muttered, "You're in LA?"

"I came to see you..."

"And I came to see you, too."

They both laughed at the irony of it all.

"So...what do we do now?" Serena asked.

"I have no idea..."

"Why don't you guys meet up in the Philippines?!" Paulee said from behind.

Serena laughed, "Yeah, well," She said, speaking to Blake on the phone, "She has quite an idea..."

"I'll find a hotel here, stay for the night, and you..."

"You can stay with me," Paulee said.

"Thanks," Serena muttered and smiled a bit and turned her attention back to Blake, "And...then..."

"And then we meet up in the Philippines...even if we'd be flat broke then." He laughed.

Serena laughed, too, "Oh, well...make sure you don't do a pit stop to Singapore or something..."

"I won't," He said, "And...don't worry, we'll find each other." He went on, "I love you, Serena."

"I love you, too."

The Long Way Home

Faster, faster. Blake wanted to tell the pilot to rush, bring him home to the Philippines already. He wanted to see Serena, wanted to hold her tight, hug her, kiss her, and tell her that he loved her more than anything else. It was all crazy, going from country to country just to find each other...but he knew it was gonna be worth it.

A couple of hours passed, and the plane went down the tarmac. He went out, full of hope.

***

I made so many insane decisions, and this has got to be the craziest... Serena thought, But who cares? She smiled at herself, knowing finally, she was doing what her heart was telling her do, without caring whatever the world would say.

***

She scanned the crowd for him, and he did the same thing. There were so many people, probably thousands of people, and yet, in the midst of it all, they found each other. He saw her first and called out her name. She saw him and smiled. They ran to each other and both were wonderstruck at first, not knowing what to do.

"Who knew," He finally said, "That this is where our story would end..."

She smiled, "This," She said, holding his hand, "Is where our story begins."

He smiled back, "I love you," He said, "You...are home. With you, I feel at home. And...and if I'd go through it all over again just to find you, I will. If I'd live a thousand more lives after this, I know in each life, I'd still be looking for you, and will find you, in the end. We're not perfect, both of us, but together, we're incomparable. Who knows? It would probably be hard, but I'm willing to stay. Always."

"You," She said, "Are such a romantic."

He laughed, "I know I am."

"It was a long way home, huh?"

"Yeah," He said, "But it was worth it."

And then they kissed.

~♥~

