 
((shot hangs in black as the voice of Jason can be heard interjecting. The words "The Adventures of the U.S.S. Eldridge (( .. and crew)) "are shown upon the screen pitted against the black, disappearing after four seconds))

Jason:((voice)) "I'm telling you what I saw." ((the shot begins to pan out, revealing the pupil of a man's eye, fixed past the shot)) "I'm not lying about this." ((another man, 47 year old man from the previous chapter, responds))

47 year old man:((voice)) "You can't lie to us, we know what happened. We just want to know the facts. Like, why do you think you're Jason? Why are you on the Eldridge? Why do you think you're there?" ((the eye blinks once)) "Are you aware that you weren't there? Are you aware of where you are right now?" ((cut to close up of a man, who does not resemble Jason seated at a table. The background behind him is within a dark gray room with a single point of illumination, a light from the ceiling and hanging close to the shot. The rest of the room pitched in darkness, as the table before him is wooden. He is 39 years old, blue eyes, and tattoos on his left arm one of which is a woman on his interior forearm, and another a small anchor on his right bicep. He is wearing a short sleeve shirt without buttons, and is Caucasian with tanned skin and grayish blonde hair, not trimmed with a slight beard. He is not cuffed not being held prisoner, but stares past the shot to the right)) "This is serious Steven, you need to answer." ((there is a pause, followed by his tone, softer)) "You're not gonna get in trouble, we just need to know what you're talking about." ((the Man known now as Steven, is unmoved)) "Just tell us."

Steven:((formerly Man, now sounds like a different person entirely. He sounds like he has grown up in the state of California all his life. He looks very unhappy, as he speaks once more)) "I did."

38 year old man:((voice, and from the previous chapter))((his voice raising)) "No you didn't!" ((cut to close up of two set of hands upon the wooden table and still has the ashtray brimming with extinguished cigarettes, including one that has a small stream of smoke still escaping. The file is still upon the table before them as well. The set of hands to the right is motioning relentlessly, while the one to the left remains idle)) "You didn't. You're saying you're Jason, you aren't. You said you were assigned to the Eldridge, you weren't." ((right hand of 38 year old man, seated to the right of the shot, motioning angrily)) " You said you were a Private First Class - " ((pointing to the paper, then past the shot)) " - and you're not in the Navy at all. You're in the Army. You're a Sergeant!"

47 year old man:((holding up right hand to the set of the hands to the right of the shot, staying them off. The right set of hands relents, as 47 year old man begins to speak)) "Look, Steven, you're not Jason. He died." ((cut to close up of the face of the man known as Steven, who now resembles Jason, the spitting image from that era unchanged by time. He is looking down at the table, not making eyes with his accusers across from him hidden behind the camera's angle)) "Some of the crew didn't even know that you died if you are Jason at all. It was a ship that was big, and not small like the frigate." ((Jason shuffles in his seat)) "Do you remember before? You said you were a midshipman too." ((Jason looks troubled, not making eye contact)) "You said you were five other people, including Jason." ((pauses, Jason not reacting)) "Why did you say that?"

38 year old man:((voice))((discerning)) "You got lost, a little high, something happened and you're Jason in your head." ((Jason is about to retort, firmly looking up past the shot to right)) "Doesn't mean it's not true for you. It just isn't true here." ((he looks down again, not interested in listening))

Jason:((looks down, disappointed)) "You just don't get it. You don't understand." ((shaking head, dejected)) "You just don't want to."

38 year old man:((voice)) "No I don't. I don't want to think about it and I don't want to know about it." ((Jason looks up past the shot)) "What happened aboard that boat is a mystery." ((cut to the bridge of the U.S.S. Eldridge, shown through the Captain's P.O.V. almost dead center looking out through the front window over the bow. There are two crewman on either side before him as well, both looking out past the shot. There is no sound, except for within the room where Jason and the interrogators are seated. A large green and yellow wave passes over the bow of the shop, and quickly pulses at the bridge window across the deck of the ship)) "You can't say what happened there is known to you. Alright?" ((cut to close up of Alfred facing to the left of the shot, terrified, his face pitched in green and yellow pulsing over his features. There are two crewmen in the background, and are reacting in the same fashion.)) "The crew vanished, and never came back." ((cut to close up of Man #2's face, who hails from Houston Texas. Behind him is a grey metal wall below the main bridge's front window that faces the bow. His face is cast in the same colors, green and yellow coming from behind the camera. He looks terrified as well, and in awe beyond the upper frame of the shot past the camera, as though what is approaching the vessel is larger than life)) "They didn't come back, ok?" ((cut to Man #2's P.O.V. as the wave quickly advances. There are two men on either side closer to the bow, who reel back in fear. As the wave advances, both are converted instantly into arcs of electricity, though not vaporized, and the wave advances quickly at the shot)) "There's only a couple who remember but - " ((cut to close up of 38 year old man's right hand, patting downwards onto the air above the tabletop)) " - they don't remember all of it." ((palm open)) "Ok?" ((waves hand)) "It's just not that simple." ((cut to wide shot within the bay of the U.S.S. Eldridge, where the tubes and the crewmen at the valves were stationed. Most are kneeling along the horizontal tubes connected to the vertical one, stationed at their respective blue valves while one, Georgia Sailor, is still standing at the vertical tube to closer right to the shot)) "We don't know what happened at all." ((there is a single line of light that emerges through the top of the shot, through the vertical tube and into the Bay, glimmering brightly. Each of the crewmen notice, and the colors are vibrant. The light is blue, then yellow, and then begins to pulse red and yellow green very vividly.))((cut to Jason that exact day in the bay, facing towards the right of the shot, as his surroundings are pitted in a hue and tone of the colors, his figure as well and those of two crewman in the background behind him. His outline changes in shape momentarily to become a blob of mismatched colors.)) "But I know that you weren't ever there at all." ((Jason reacts, as do the other two, as all become the color BLU or the color yellow and yellow green. Jason looks around frantically, then to the left of the shot)) "You couldn't be. He was there." ((cut to close up of Sailor #2 from Jason's P.O.V. , still kneeling down, looking down at his hands breathing heavily, as his whole body changes in color from blue to red to yellow. He looks at the shot, scared)) "You didn't have any friends there." ((the view pans to the left to reveal Philadelphia Man standing at the intercom desperately pressing the intercom switch, and speaking, though no sound is emitted. He is very alarmed and looks petrified in fear)) "You didn't know anybody there at all." ((cut to previous, Jason in the Bay only that day, looking past the shot very scared, as the colors continue to shift around him. He begins to morph once more, this time fading as though his outline and features become more like shuttered light found in the manner that a projector displays imaged for film or a cinema. His movements and motions become similar, though his entire body fading like film becoming hot and gray under a lamp too extreme. He turns about, his back to the shot, now focusing on what is behind him)) "You didn't see anyone die." ((cut to close up of Jason, the effect still occurring, as he gazes to the right of the shot, sheer shock and terror, his features twisted)) "Steven there are people dead because of this. Alright? This isn't funny to talk about." ((cut to Steven, who had previous looked like Jason, still seated in the same room dimly lit being interrogated. He has brown eyes, brownish black hair now, and is roughly 24 years old and looks different than Jason and the previous appearance at the beginning of this chapter. He has more gaunt features, and isn't tanned and has no tattoos, though his clothing is the same. He stares downward like before, very saddened. The tone of the 38 year old man softens slightly)) "He's not you. You aren't there." ((Steven shuffles in his seat)) "You didn't go there."

47 year old man:((voice))((clears throat and speaks firmly)) "Let me just explain what happens now." ((pausing)) "You were drugged, something - happened to you." ((Steven grimaces)) "You went crazy." ((Steven is about to speak, holds back sighing)) "You can't go crazy ever again." ((pausing)) "Not like this at all." ((cut to the pair of folded hands to the left of the shot, the ones to the right unmoved, while those to the left waving casually, then being places upon the table top.)) "It's not gonna work. We can't allow it." ((the set to the left's right hand emphasizing at the shot)) "You know that." ((patting in the air twice)) "You need to know that." ((cut to Steven once more, up close, skew right side of face shown)) "You can't just do this and expect not to get noticed. It's not gonna happen again." ((Steven looks up past the right of the frame to protest, but doesn't find the words)) "You have to say it." ((Steven is about to speak, shakes his head defiant staring off to the left of the shot, grimaces after a moment. There is a five second pause before there is speech again)) "We'll just sit here and wait." ((the sound of a chair creaking to the right of the shot, as the sound of a man leaning back)) "You have to say it." ((cut to Steven's P.O.V. showing the white and yellow tobacco stained walls of the interrogation room, where closest to the upper end of the wall is a stationary, though unmoved green face, that of a cartoon mouse that matches an illustration and style found on a television shown on Italian TV now known as Italia. The face of the mouse states at the shot, directly at Steven)) "You're going to say it sometime." ((the face looks confused, looking down tot he left then back at the shot)) "You're going to say it because we need you to say it." ((cut to Steven up close, previous shot shaking his head, looking like he is about to scream)) "We need you to say it one time, just so we're clear." ((he begins to cry))((pause, as the tone is softer, more direct)) "You have to say it. You have to say it right now." ((Steven shakes his head, negative, crying)) "Just say it."

Steven:((shaking head, holding back from sobbing)) "No."

47 year old man:((voice))((raising slightly)) "Look if you don't say it, we have a problem, and we can't have a problem." ((Steven looks up slightly)) "Ok? This is a problem for you. It's that simple." ((cut to the pair of hands closest to the right of the shot, those of the 38 year old man atop the table. He seems like he is about to reach for the pack of Lucky Strikes upon the table towards the overflowing ashtray, then refrains, stiffening)) "And we can't have a problem, ok?" ((38 year old man's hands react, palms open and then not)) "We can't do this Steven."

38 year old man:((voice))((palms out before the shot, upward fingers pointed up))((voice losing patience)) "Listen, you can't be here." ((hands motioning downward)) "You can't stay on base, and you can't be in the Army anymore." ((Steven can be heard sobbing)) "You just can't." ((cut to previous, Steven up close holding back sobbing)) "You're not allowed here, and you can't be here. Whoever you are in your head, you're there." ((cut to close up Sailor #2 screaming though no noise heard, as he begins to sink through the floor below the frame as the shot follows downwards to reveal his entire body sinking through the floor of the bay and the hull of the ship, as he sinks just to his neck with his head above the floor of the Bay. The background behind still alternating colors pitted against the metal of the ship, glimmering)) "You're in your head there." ((cut to close up of Jason in the Bay, facing towards the lower left of the shot, screaming though no sound emitted as he looks at his hands becoming blue and green as the colors of his body become different shades, his clothing and his hair matching them as well)) "It's not the same thing. You're not there." ((Steven speaks))

Steven:((voice)) "You just don't understand." ((Jason turns about in the shot, left side to camera as he faces towards the open Bay off camera))

47 year old man:((voice))((very serious)) "Look, we don't care." ((cut to Jason's P.O.V. the Bay before him facing towards the vertical tube, which is more towards the left, then right of the shot as his view pans across. The Bay continues to change and alternate in colors and scheme of shade as the crewmen kneeling previous, some having risen to their feet, are being melded with the floors and walls and surrounding boundaries of the deck. The vertical tube is seen in the foreground of the right of the shot now, as many of the crewmen become stuck in the floor out of sight. One has his left arm stuck in a wall in the foreground to the left and is being pulled into the wall and another attempts to grab him, only to be stuck to him and break away, terrified)) "None of this happened. You weren't there." ((the shot zooms in as the sailor who tried to wrestle the other free of the wall begins to sink into the deck beneath, both of his legs up to his ankles embedded into the plating, as though the floor itself was quicksand.)) "When I hear this, I just don't want to think about this." ((cut to Jason close up, horrified, looking to the right of the shot downwards screaming though no sound emitted)) "I don't think it's necessary. I think you're lying." ((cut to Jason's P.O.V. as Sailor has sunk through the floor, face first on his stomach, and is writhing on the floor of the Bay. His hands and legs find no traction, as he continues to sink as Jason's hands and arms reach into the shot, attempting to grab onto him, only to become attached to him, fused to him as the parts of his body begins to merge with his.)) "Malarkey. All of this." ((the sound of papers being impatiently stacked vertically upon the top of a wooden table))((cut to Jason rising out of the lower frame of the shot frantically, pulling back amidst the shifting colors, his body still changing as well, as he looks to the left of the shot, as the light from off camera emitted from the vertical tube begins to strobe violently and erratically.)) "I don't believe you. I don't think you're wrong, I just think you're insane." ((cut to Jason's P.O.V., shakily zooming in towards the vertical tube where Georgia Sailor, who turned valve seventeen stands to the right side of the shot next to the vertical tube, strobes intermittently of yellow and blue light, pulsing outwards in waves of YLLOOOOOSAY very hot, as shown with ripples of waves in the shot that seems to be horizontal but react with the waves emitted from the vertical tube. Georgia Sailor is screaming with no noise or sound made, his left hand upon the valve fused and burning as he begins to actually melt and then fall apart in place in terms of matter, not disintegrating, but melting)) "I'm just going to say that." ((the sound of scribbling upon papers, as the sound of Steven sobbing continues)) "You should know this is on your record now." ((cut to close up of Jason in the Bay, shrieking past the shot, no sound emitted, as he places his hands to his face screaming as there is suddenly a jolt on the camera, as though the vessel was struck or struck an object. Jason falls over in the shot to his left or right of the shot as Steven can be heard))

Steven:((voice)) "No. I don't care." ((the sound of scribbling stops abruptly)) "I don't fucking care." ((the intermittent strobe stop abruptly, as does the light surrounding the shot and was filling the bay with color. There is only the brief flickering of an overhead incandescent bulb while the other sparks and another right after in a blink of an eye.))

38 year old man:((voice))((scornfully)) "You're not even worth talking to." ((pausing)) "You just lie and you think we believe you." ((cut to close up along the floor of the Bay, facing Jason who is lying on his left side, the camera sliding close to his face along the floor, panning at his face showing his upper torso and the top of his head. He is partially fused to the floor, his left arm beneath him, fused to the deck of the Bay. His face is also adhered to the surface of the deck, as he is seen screaming though no noise or sound is emitted. The shot begins to pan into his face as the background behind him shows only the flickering incandescent bulb from above the top of the frame, the ceiling of the Bay, with sparks emitted from the placement of the other lights)) "You think we even care what happened we don't know what happened." ((the shot continues to pan towards Jason's face, and begins to enter his open mouth as he continues to scream, his voice mute to the scene)) "And you weren't there and you know that, and I don't want to hear you talk again." ((the shot enters his mouth fully, and hangs in black)) "I want you out of here, I want you stripped of your rank - " ((pauses)) " - you know what? You know what? Get him out of here." ((cut to Steven up close resembling Jason once more, though only for two seconds, then returning to the form of Steven still seated in the chair facing towards the right of the frame, looking very unhappy and upset. He is holding back tears and shaking near sobbing once more and shaking his head)) "Just get him out of here I don't want him anywhere near this base get him out of here." ((the sound of one seat scratching against the floor, wood meeting linoleum as Steven looks up towards the left of the shot towards the wall near the door, skew right of the shot))((cut to Steven P.O.V. seeing the same green head looking towards the right of the shot, in the direction of the 38 year old man and the 47 year old man. The cartoon head still resembles a green mouse, in the style of one found on a Cartoon show created for the Italian television network Italia. The sound of both of them rising up out of their chairs and the sound of paperwork being picked up is accompanied by indecipherable grumbling followed by a single statement)) "The guards will be in to get you, just stay here." ((the cartoon head looks directly at the shot))((cut to previous, Steven who is reeling in fright, shaking and sobbing looks away grimacing and shaking his head)) "Fuckin - can't even deal with it."

((cut to the face of a building on a small blue brick tenement home, the street at the base of the shot. Horns as well as a police siren of the 1970's can be heard. A 1973 Ford Sedan the color mint olive drives into the shot from the right. The time of day is evening, and there are two passersby wearing lighter clothes, traveling to the left of the shot. On the driver's side of the sedan is a black number reading US331 along with the number 20903030111 . With the glow of the street lands to the rear driver's side and front windshield of the vehicle, we can make out four occupants, silhouetted against the bright sheen of the lights upon the sedan. The sound of the passenger door opens, and out steps a man wearing a brown uniform of a military police officer of the United States Army. He is roughly 29 years old, Caucasian, clean shaven with no hat, and sober. He steps towards the rear passenger side and opens the rear door.

Military Policeman:((Texan accent)) "Come on get out." ((cut to the face of a calendar hanging upon a wall. The picture is of an oil painting with its image just barely above the top of the frame. The month is March. The sounds of the street are muffled, as there is the sound of a forceful entry against a door with a chain lock broken. The knob is easily jiggled and seems to be broken as well. Steven can be heard speaking))

Steven:((voice)) "Dad?" ((the shot lowers to the base of the calendar, reading the current year at the base of the calendar as 1975 )) "Are you here?" ((cut to a small hallway, leading in from a hallway door that leads out to the corridors of the tenement building. It is dimly lit within, and the color brown with white, and then darker brown trim. There is blue thick carpet beneath his feet, though damp looking floorboards leading in from the door. There is creaking beneath his steps as he makes his way gingerly through the hallway towards the shot. There is a small doorway open to his immediate left that he gazes into, then walks through. There is another doorway to the left of shot closest to the camera, whose door is open yet the interior of the room unable to be seen. Steven leaves the shot, walking into the right most doorway, as the sounds of life outdoors in the city continue))

((cut to the interior of a small living room, with a brown leather sofa which the camera rests upon, on the back of it overlooking its cushions. It faces out towards the doorway with a television set atop a wooden drawer set. It is an aerial television, with a tube screen of the era, though only black and white. The walls are tinge of yellow from tobacco smoke, and before the soba is a small end table with an ashtray filled with filtered butts, the brand Winston. The television show shown upon the screen is that of a police drama named 'Perry Mason' , and the volume is not low., and echoes as he enters the room. Steven hangs momentarily in the doorway of the room while gazing deep into the left towards the shot. He walks into the room two steps, and then walks back out, with both of his hands on the exterior of the doorway, leaning in. He turns to the left of the shot outside the doorway, and down the hallway.))

Steven: "Dad?" ((he walks around the corner to the left of the shot, now obscured by the wall.))

((cut to facing a light wooden doorway, the shot panning towards it slowly. It is closed and with a painted metal handle, as Steven walks into the shot, the camera over his right shoulder, his steps audible. His left side is to the door, and he knocks softly with his left hand. He paws and pushes open the door lightly, and peers between the open crack to the right side))

((cut to Steven's P.O.V. showing an elderly man asleep soundly under the covers of a single bed against the far left wall, and close to the fire escape. Next to the bed and the sleeping man is a fire escape leading out to an alley, a brick wall of an adjacent building, the horizon. The sounds of the outdoors are that of pedestrian and fire siren, as within the building between the walls can be heard the active television and a crying infant from a nearby apartment. The room is pitched in black, as the silhouette of Steven can be seen in the reflection of the glass and his shadow upon the wall. The man in the bed, presumably Steven's father, doesn't react, though Steven's silhouette and shadow carefully creep back, and close the door gently, as the room once more is shrouded in night))

((cut to close up of the black and white television, now screening 'Perry Mason' . The actor himself in the role is standing looking to the right of the shot))

PePerry Mason:((looking towards the right of the shot, in courtroom)) "Are you sure?" ((a younger woman's voice responds))

Younger Woman:((voice))((very energetically, and speaking in a tone of the era)) "Yes, I saw him once." ((cut to Steven seated on the brown leather sofa, looking past the shot a framed picture behind him obscured by the top of the frame)) "He was right there seated." ((pauses, as Steven remains unmoved)) "I saw him more than once afterward, and then he stopped coming here." ((Steven very uncomfortable looks to his right towards the doorway into the living room from the hallway, now to the left of the shot. For a moment he seems more relaxed than before, though after one glimpse, he turns right back forward shaking his head, and is once more upset))

Steven:((gritting teeth)) "Just go away please." ((leaning forward with his head in his hands))((cut to over Steven's left shoulder, as next to the doorway is the green cartoon head seen previously, looking at him confused. Steven leans back up into the shot, trying not to scream, his face looking in the direction of the doorway, then back)) "Just leave and don't come near me." ((panting, almost ready to panic and sob)) "I don't know what you are. I don't know what you are looking for." ((Steven turns his head towards the doorway, the back of head is to the shot as he speaks)) "It's not my fault what happened ok?" ((sighing, a brief pause, as the cartoon head continues to look confused)) "I don't know who you're looking for or what you want." ((cut to close up of the cartoon's face and head, turning inquisitively while Steven speaks)) "I just need you to go away and leave me alone." ((beginning to sob and shiver)) "Please."

Cartoon Head:((in a higher pitched tone, MONOOFBBE ))((sounds like a voice saying AA over and over again)) " FARPBARIII . NANAAZAZI ." ((cut to close up of Steven, frantic expression, eyes swollen with tears again, trembling in manic anger)) " MAPBAPFAPA nakda 33I barof7REEIsay1 ." ((Steven hearing only AA over and over, erupts into tears gripping his face and eyes with both hands)) " BARBARWAAASANA wayyw11asaA1 . SANASASAZOTNEAAOFE ." ((cut to close up of the Cartoon Head once more)) " GOSTNABsananaSAYWCCICCW1NA . IIEAAE ." ((cut to Steven standing into the shot, jolting upwards screaming at the top of his lungs past the shot))

Steven: "SHUT UP! SHUT THE FUCK UP! " ((cut to previous, the Cartoon Head continuing to speak then stops abruptly, continuing to look past the shot confused)) "WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT? WHAT DOES IT MEAN????! WHAT IS IT??! " ((the sounds of nearby apartments react, as well as those dwelling within the one where Steven is heard screaming))

Man:((in same apartment))((voice))((groggy)) "What?"

Steven: "WHAT ARE YOU FUCKING TALKING ABOUT??! "

Man:((voice)) "Steven...?" ((another apartment directly above has an active tenant as well))

Man in other apartment:((muffled from ceiling))((voice)) "SHUT THE FUCK UP!!" ((the Cartoon Head looks down then up))

Steven: "WHAT IS THE FUCKING POINT OF YOU HAUNTING ME?" ((the Cartoon Head looks past the shot once more towards Steven's voice, still confused head cocked in analysis)) "ARE YOU FUCKING STUPID WHYA RE YOU FUCKING HAUNTING ME?"

Man in other apartment((muffled from ceiling))((voice)) "FUCKIN' SHUT - THE - FUCK - UP!!!! " ((the Cartoon Head looks upwards once more))

Man:((sound of door opening))((voice)) "Steven?" ((the Cartoon Head reacts looking to the left of the shot))((cut to Steven close up drooling slightly, panting in manic rage towards the shot)) "Is that you?" ((concerned))

Steven:((whispering hoarse and crazed)) "What is you FUCKING problem?" ((pants once)) "Why are you heeeerrrreeee?" ((the sound of approaching slipper covered footsteps from off camera to the right of the shot can be heard atop the floorboards of the hallway))

Man:((voice)) "Steven?" ((astonished))((Steven, shaking turns to the right of the shot in the direction of the entry doorway of the living room))((cut to close up of a man roughly 75 years old, Caucasian, and slender, horseshoe balding pattern gray and white hair. He looks frightened and concerned, and tired)) "What are you doing here?" ((walking slowly through the doorway into the living room from the single entrance. He stoops to turn off the television, turning its right knob once to the right clockwise. He looks back up past the shot towards his son Steven off camera)) "Why aren't you on the base?" ((cut to previous, Steven melting down, cringing in anger and sadness, about to cry loudly. There is a pause as Steven's father refrains from speaking)) "What's wrong?" ((Steven can't hold back and begins to cry. He's not able to contain himself and smashes both of his hands into his eyes and begins to cry terribly)) "Why are you crying?" ((cut to previous, Steven's father, formerly Man, slowly approaching. He is wearing a gray robe and blue pajama pants and no shirt at all, hiding gray chest hairs)) "Are you ok?"

Steven:((voice)) "Dad?" ((sniffling, Steven's Father pauses movement)) "I'm crazy." ((He begins to look terrified and troubled)) "I'm fuckin' crazy dad I'm sorry." ((sniffling once more, as Steven's Father looks past the shot to left confused, and very sympathetically)) "I can't take it." ((cut to Steven facing towards the shot right, skew, standing, and pulling back his hands away from his eyes, which have now reddened and swelled from tears)) "I just can't fuckin' take it."

Steven's Father:((formerly Man))((voice)) "What?" ((Steven looking on to the left cringing)) "What? What is it?" ((Steven explodes past his father at the shot))

Steven:((screaming)) "STOP FUCKING LOOKING AT ME!" ((cut to Steven's Father, looking at the shot blinking)) "STOP IT!" ((Steven's Father turns to the right of the shot and around))((cut to Steven's Father's P.O.V. not seeing anyone there, including the Cartoon Head)) "JUST FUCKING GET OUT OF HERE!!" ((cut to the right side of Steven's Father's face turning to face the lower right of the shot, seeing nothing and becoming afraid, as behind him in the foreground is Steven out of focus and shrieking in anger)) "GET THE FUCK OUT!" ((deep breath)) "JUST GET THE FUCK OUT!!" ((Steven's Father terrified and shaking with tears forming in his eyes, turns back towards the shot, the camera now over his left shoulder, Steven coming into focus, staring directly past his father. He is panting unevenly and looks very weary))

Steven's Father:((voice))((very softly and calm)) "Are you talking to me?" ((Steven is frustrated and reacts as such, shaking his head and flailing his arms once, and turns about, his back to his father now, blocking the shot and begins to cry. His father approaches slowly)) "Are you mad at me?"

Steven:((voice))((muffled, hand over mouth)) "No." ((cut to close up of Steven's Father's face, shown over Steven's left shoulder, his face and body out of focus)) "No I'm not." ((shaking head, as his father's attention to him is fixed)) "I just can't deal with it." ((pants uncontrollably)) "I just can't deal with it."

Steven's Father:((fades out of focus, while Steven is now in focus, the left side of his face shown)) "Deal with what?" ((Steven doesn't react, his face beyond the shot and reach emotionally)) "The Army?" ((Steven's lips curl)) "Well just don't do anything then. Come here." ((Steven begins to tremble. Steven's Father speaks in a more unhappy tone)) "Come live here and you don't have to be there."

Steven:((sniffing)) "It's not that."

Steven's Father:((pausing)) "Then what?"

Steven:((pausing, shaking and speaking slowly)) "It's that fucking face."

Steven's Father:((pause four seconds, as Steven continues to tremble in frustration and anger, sniffing with tears)) "What face Steven?"

Steven:((shaking head)) "It's a cat, it's a dog, it's a fucking mouse." ((he breathes in deeply, looking up towards the ceiling, his eyes clenched shut, as he opens them and looks back down towards the left, more sedate and exasperated response, shaking his head again)) "It just shows up at random and doesn't do anything." ((sniffs once, he cracks a nervous smile)) "It just stares at me." ((cut skewed shot to Steven's Father facing towards the left of the shot, gravely concerned, eyes fixed)) "It just fucking stares at me." ((sniffs, his hands wiping away tears, altering his speech)) "For no reason." ((sniffs, softer)) "Just no fucking reason."

Steven's Father:((confused, squinting)) "A dog and a cat?"

Steven:((voice)) "And a mouse." ((sniffs))((Steven's Father shakes his head once in confusion, his eyes still slimmed in an attempt to understand)) "It's just something that shows up." ((he blinks as Steven's voice cracks and he begins to break down once more)) "It just never goes away. It never fucking leaves." ((cut to Steven up close, the left side of his face shown only. He is looking downward shaking his head, very upset)) "It never wants to leave. It just - " ((he looks up, taking a deep breath)) "I can't even explain it, it just doesn't understand." ((trembling in confused rage and sadness, manic)) "I just keep saying don't come here and it keeps coming here." ((cut to previous angle, Steven's Father very confused and upset, silent, as Steven begins to cry once more)) "I didn't mean to do anything wrong." ((Steven's Father's expression becomes sunken, as Steven almost begins to sob)) "I just didn't know what to do." ((pauses)) "I didn't want to hurt anybody."

Steven's Father: "What did you do?" ((cut to previous, Steven looking only towards the left frame, left side of face shown)) "Son what did you do?" ((cut to Steven seated, on a bench with no back, in a room that looks like a mess hall, looking to the right of shot, incredulous expression, wearing the same clothes as he is in the apartment and for the interrogation and seems to have taken place earlier that evening))((cut back to previous, Steven facing to the left of the frame, upset)) "What?"

Steven:((almost at a loss, blinking twice trying to find words)) "I saw something." ((sniffs, wiping away at his mouth with his left hand, and eyes frantically, left then right)) "It was his face."

Steven's Father: "Who?" ((cut reveals a man looking to the left of shot, showing a Caucasian man with brown hair, red eyes, and a small beard, smiling devilishly then flickering once like a pane of shattered glass flat overlaying upon the face of another, like a window over another's face that displays another. Like a mask that is a flat pane of glass with the face almost painted upon it, that looks for a moment broken. The face and the pane both disappear, revealing another man's face beneath, not smiling but eating food with a fork. He is African American with low cut buzzed hair))((cut to previous, Steven in the apartment, facing to the low left overcome with confusion, shaking his head))

Steven: "This guy." ((shaking his head, bewildered)) "I never saw him. But his face - " ((holding his left hand near his face, like he was applying a mask)) " - it's the scariest thing I've ever seen." ((his eyes are wide as he stares out past the left frame of the shot)) "I never saw anything like him before." ((shaking head)) "And I couldn't stop." ((cut to Steven seated with the mess hall behind him in the background, him reacting impulsively and frantically, crazed leaping towards the right into the shot towards the right frame)) "I didn't know how." ((cut to previous, shaking head, left hand to face)) "I just didn't know why." ((cut to the African American man's face, overlooking the shot, the shot Steven's P.O.V. , shaking, and the frame jostling with motions implying a struggle. The man is mouthing the words "Fuckin' asshole! Fuck you!" as a fist flies from the right into the shot, striking the man on his left jaw and throttling him, his eyes clenching. He reels to the left of the shot)) "But I needed to kill him." ((the African American man reacts and strikes the shot with a left fist in a flash of white))((cut to Steven's Father, still facing towards the left of shot, horrified and eyes glazed and tear filled)) "I just needed to kill him for some reason." ((he slowly shakes his head, transfixed past the shot and terrified. Steven's voice begins to crack and almost sobs)) "But I never could, I just don't know why I wanted to." ((begins to cry again)) "He was my friend." ((pausing to pant, Steven's Father's face tightening)) "I never know what it was like to have a friend." ((his face becomes more questioning, though his features remain taut)) "Someone who needs you." ((sniffs)) "Someone who wasn't even mad at you all the time." ((Steven's Father's expression becomes a little more hurt)) "Someone who I didn't even hate." ((cut to Steven up close, still facing to the left of the shot, facing downwards)) "I never know what it was like." ((a little calmer, sniffs)) "And now I don't even know what to do." ((sniffs and grimaces)) "The Army doesn't even want me back." ((shakes his head, wipes his right eye with his right hand, then his left)) "I didn't even get charged but - " ((showing some deceit, reluctant to reveal such to his father)) " - I don't know why I said these things." ((pausing, squinting past the shot, sniffing once)) "Like I was in the Navy before, and my name was Jason." ((shakes had and sniffs))((cut to close up of Steven's Father, looking completely bewildered, and still disturbed, facing to the left of the shot skewed)) "And how I don't even remember who I am." ((his father squints, taking a deep sigh)) "I was saying I don't know who I am." ((quaking)) "And I never stopped screaming it." ((cut to Steven up close, previous shot, gazing past the left frame down slightly towards the left frame's corner, still struggling to find the words)) "And I really felt like I was someone else." ((wide eyes, gazing towards the lower left of frame)) "Like I'd see things and remember things about it." ((pausing)) "Like a boat...and I remember a boat sailing." ((cut to P.O.V. shot, walking the corridors of a boat that resembles the corridors of the U.S.S. Eldridge. It is steel gray in color with a metal deck floor. There are pipes running along the ceiling and the metal plated floor leads down a very narrow corridor with an oval doorway with an open pressure door and a circular wheel to seal it closed. There is one at the end of the corridor facing the shot, and another to the right of the shot leading out to night time light. P.O.V. is passing by two people, both in uniforms of a sailor, white with blue trim and they looked like they were in the Navy)) "And there were people there." ((both pass by P.O.V. single file, about the ages of 22 and 35 years old, the youngest second to pass. The 35 year old has red hair and green eyes, while the 22 year old with brown hair and blue eyes. Both freeze, going rigid, their backs against the wall. They both salute)) "And they looked at me like I was in command." ((the shot keeps moving, though a right hand of the P.O.V. enters the shot, the short sleeves of a beige uniform along the bicep, saluting from the right side. P.O.V. continues to walk forward and passes both towards the open pressure door at the end of the corridor)) "And it all happened so fast." ((cut to previous, Steven still looking towards the lower left of the frame)) "I never even had a chance to say anything." ((lip curls, very upset)) "Before I knew it, the MP's already had me in custody." ((pauses, squinting)) "And I kept seeing stuff." ((cut to P.O.V a hand taking a drag of a filterless cigarette, looking over the bow of a ship, resembling the U.S.S. Eldridge, the sun red and setting to the left of the shot)) "All the time I was just seeing things." ((cut to Steven's Father very stern expression, eyes fixed past the shot to the left frame)) "Just...stuff that wasn't there, but I was there." ((cut to Steven facing towards the left of shot, breathing deeply once, then shaking his head))((calmer)) "And I remember seeing things right...before my eyes." ((huffs, shaking head)) "Like it was on television. I never even know what to say." ((he slowly turns towards the shot, and around to face the right of shot towards his dad)) "And you know, I don't know what to say but \- " ((he stops, now facing his father off camera, and his expression becomes hesitant)) "Dad?" ((cut to close up of Steven's Father, extraordinarily worried and expressing it with not just tears but shakily breathing. He is very upset.)) "Dad listen I don't know what's going on - "

Steven's Father:((shaking head))((softly)) "Just stop." ((holding back, breathing deep))((cut to previous, Steven trying to hold composure)) "Just stop, and don't say another word." ((the sound of Steven's Father's dad breathing in deeply)) "Please, just don't say another word." ((cut to close up of Steven's Father's face, not looking away, but gazing past the shot uncertain. He pauses, and speaks again, softly)) "Are you on drugs?" ((there is a pause, and no sound made))((cut to Steven facing to the right, a look of disbelief and desperation)) "Like pot or this this LS whatever?" ((Steven shakes his head very minutely))

Steven:((calm, sniffing twice, wiping is nose with his left hand))((looking away then down, dejected)) "No." ((sniffs))((cut to previous, Steven's Father looking more troubled, wincing)) "No dad."

Steven's Father: "Are you ok if I don't ask you to come back?" ((he stands motionless, his face tired as the sound of Steven is barely audible))

Steven:((voice)) "No - " ((Steven's Father shakes his head, eyes wincing, though still staring past the shot towards him off camera)) "No dad I - " ((his father's face creases, his teeth gritted)) " - I don't want to leave I ... I don't have anywhere to go please..." ((Steven's Father begins to cry looking down away from the shot)) "Please don't do this." ((pause, as Steven's voice grows more desperate)) "I need to talk to someone about this." ((cut to Steven, facing away from the shot and towards the right, right side of face shown. He is beginning to grow upset again)) "Please don't do this."

Steven's Father:((voice)) "You know what you are?" ((sniffs, and pause)) "You're a fucking liar." ((Steven looks crushed))((cut to Steven's Father previous angle, trying to hold back)) "Every morning I cooked food for you, and cleaned up your face, and mouth." ((looking off to the left of shot, sighing)) "Everything I said to you, to do your best and never give up anything, just makes me think I shouldn't have done it at all." ((motions past shot, and looks towards him once more off camera)) "You come back here, drunk or high on whatever and think I care anymore?" ((sniffs))((cut to previous, Steven silent and motionless, his face drained of life)) "Like you're the same little boy I knew." ((sobs slightly)) "Like I know who you are now. Like you're anyone I know at all." ((cut to close up Steven's Father's face, looking up as he speaks)) "When you talk now, I feel like you don't know who I am." ((sniffs, shakes head)) "And I don't know who you are." ((wipes at his nose with his left hand looking down, and away from the shot))((cut to close up of Steven still looking towards the right of the shot, in shock)) "Just don't say things." ((Steven's lips close, and come close to quivering)) "Just don't say anything right now." ((takes an uneasy breath in)) "It's too early for me, and I just can't be with you right now." ((sniffs)) "Just go to sleep, and get out tomorrow." ((Steven's eyes widen, his face more nervous and disheartened)) "Just get out." ((sniffs)) "Don't come back." ((cut to Steven's Father sniffing once, and looking straight past the shot shaking his head)) "Don't talk to me again like this." ((his face tightens and creases, his teeth gritted as he stares past the shot to the left)) "Don't do it." ((breathing once slowly)) "I need you to just lie down." ((looking back up past shot towards Steven off camera)) "And don't talk to me ever again." ((shakes head, holding back tears and crying)) "Just don't do it." ((he begins to walk out of the shot to the right))((cut to wide shot behind Steven's left leg, as Steven's Father departs from the room, shuffling shakily out of the living room through the doorway, as Steven's body is frozen and he is silent. As Steven's Father walks out of the room he pants once and coughs, holding back as he shuffles down the hallway back to the bedroom he emerged from. Steven remains standing))

((cut to facing Steven, ready to explode, drawing both of his hands to his face, more tense than before, sniffing and looking down past the shot. He takes one deep breath and looks to the left of the shot towards the living room doorway))

((cut to Steven's P.O.V. where the Cartoon Head once was, now not there, and only the wall of the tenement building shown))

((cut to daytime, external the tenement building, the roaring busy streets nearby, the honking of car horns and activity of the public. The shot is staring from across the street of the blue bricked tenement building where Steven's Father resides, facing towards the stone steps leading up to its front door. Steven has emerged, and is making his way down the stairs wearing the same clothes that he had on the previous evening. He pauses for a moment, looking back and upward behind him))

((cut to Steven's P.O.V. looking straight up towards the third floor of the tenement building, the sounds of the city around him, and an otherwise clear day above with scattered clouds to the right, and blue and brilliant sun beneath))

((cut to close up, Steven's face looking upward uncertain in his expression, taking a deep breath and cringing, as he turns towards left and away from the shot))

((cut to the top of a pool table facing down towards green felt, slightly stained as along the left side of the shot and bumper, a single cue makes contact with a white cue ball knocking into a blue ball, solid number nine cracking against its shell loudly with force, propelled towards a pocket off camera and sinking into the sound of a leather net. Off camera, a wooden door creaks open on badly rusted hinges))

((cut to facing a large wooden door that is aged badly with a glass porthole, square shaped on its face, opening to the left side inwards propelled by Steven's left hand. He steps into the shot, scanning out past the shot from left to right, then back towards center. He looks like he hasn't slept, and if so, very unevenly. His clothing is creased at angles presented abstractly, pitted against low light within the room. There is clinking of glass and the sound of footsteps against the wooden floorboards at the shot and Steven, though no approaching him. He walks in fully, allowing the weight of the door to close on its own behind him.))

((cut to the surface of a bar, hard wood softened and rounded edges, speckled with streaks and scratches upon its surface at odd points, illustrating ages of abuse. In the background behind, a dimly faced brick wall, with some parts badly in need of patching and mortar, showing maroon and blood red against softened lights to the right and rear of the shot. There is also the pool table, facing the shot horizontally with three individuals, two holding cues while the third observes them. There is a must surrounding the lights and with it plumes of tobacco from the three and probably long before in the air. The chairs facing the bar have high legs and backs, and are made of dark stained wood, walnut matching the bars edges and surface. Steven, entering from the left of the shot, climbs atop one in the center of shot, adjusting himself to the stool, and straightening out. He is still reeling emotionally from the morning and his face shows it, even in darkness. A man in his near forties and a smoker with a California accentless voice, speaks off camera))

Voice:((voice)) "What'll you have?" ((Steven holds up a right index finger, while looking ill from thoughts disturbing, and is otherwise distracted))

Steven:((breathing out his response)) "Shot of whiskey." ((he looks down to his left as the drink required more emphasis, as the footsteps behind the shot of the voice reply))

Voice:((voice)) "J&B?" ((Steven nods, indifferently, his thoughts occupied by forces malignant. The voice shows no compassion, or disdain, though the sound of a glass an offering of neutrality.))

((cut to close up of a single right hand, Caucasian and heavier set with brown gray hair, pouring the brown liquid into a single shot glass, circular ridge around the ending and ending in a round base. The bottle's contents spill slightly along its right side and leave four small dots upon the wooden surface glazed in the light and seeping into the crags and grains. The glass is pushed forward less than two inches towards the lower left of the shot by Voice's hand))

Voice:((voice)) "That'll be two dollars and fifty cents."

((cut to Steven previous camera angle, the pool game continuing behind him and attentive to their own activities, as Steven wrestling with himself and his pockets produces a small crumpled wad of U.S. dollars in his left hand. He unwraps three of the dollars from one another, the total sum of the wad being four, and puts three on the counter with his right hand. His reaction looks worse seeing such, as the Voice pauses before the body attached and picks up the dollars from the bar, evident by the sound off camera. His steps echo to the left of the shot off camera, as the sound of a register clicking open with the tone of a higher toned bell echoes as well. Steven sits, looking at the single shot of whiskey under the frame, very unhappily.))

((cut to Steven P.O.V., examining the single shot in center now, the sound of Steven sniffing once, as his hands encircle around it on either side. His right reaches in from the right of the shot, sweeping inwards towards the glass, and picks it up. It hangs before the shot between his thumb and right index finger, the opening facing the shot))

((cut to previous, Steven's body facing at the shot, holding the shot glass to his lips looking at its top very disheartened, as its content waiver, then throws it back down his throat, leaving the glass empty and placing it down upon the bar top heavily. He reels from the taste, breathing in through gritted teeth, and his emotions only addled by it. Steven's ability to think is interrupted rudely from the right of the shot off camera. It is the voice of an older man, roughly 72 years old, with the drawl of a southern man. He sounds like he has had more than one shot glass of alcohol, and the slur and tone denote such.))

72 year old man:((voice)) "Hey boy." ((Steven reacts, looking unhinged to the right of the shot)) "Come sit with me." ((Steven doesn't look towards the man or off camera, except once, then down. He looks incredibly frustrated as it is, and shakes his head as the man's voice presses him further)) "Aw some on come down here. Just plop right down here." ((Steven clenches his eyes, jaw as well as the drawl continues)) "Come oooonnnnnnnnn." ((Steven pauses for a minute, rising slowly without the shot glass and walks to the right of the shot)) "That's better." ((cut to a man, grayish brown hair, blue eyes, tanned deeply and creased wrinkles upon his face and neck, roughly 168 lbs wearing a blue yellow shirt, short sleeved and dark slacks. He looks very inebriated and smiles as the sound of Steven's footsteps approach from the right of the shot off camera. The bar is angled in the direction of a wall behind the man, who is seated one stool away from the wall of patent wood. Steven's left side can be seen entering the shot, now seating two stools away from the man, and leaves his back into the shot. The 72 year old man seems immediately dejected, as he leans forward towards Steven)) "You don't wanna look at me." ((cut to Steven, closer towards his face than before hunched and very upset looking. He looks ready to explode, though placating the man, while his face creases holding back tears)) "Why?" ((Steven bites his lower lip, letting it slide back out)) "What is it?" ((Steven pants through his nostrils)) "Just tell me." ((lighter, as the sound of him swiveling around in the stool, it creaking slightly as his voice comes closer towards the right of the frame, and attempting to gain the attention of all parties in the bar to witness, past present and future. His voice is raising, though not threatening)) "Must have been somethin' I did!" ((emphasis on did))((cut to previous, 72 year old man, looking towards Steven towards the right of the shot, scanning him and his face, squinting at him. His tone darkens and is lower)) "What's wrong with you?" ((pausing at Steven is heard sniffing once. 72 year old man scans him deeper down then up studying him, as the movement of Steven can be heard of him wiping his eyes and his face)) "Why are you cryin' about?" ((72 year old man looks away briefly towards the bar before him, his emotions sympathizing, though his words not as he jostles forward at the bar)) "Why aren't you talkin' at me?" ((cut to Steven, non-responsive, and facing towards the shot, his emotions unchanged though getting worse. He head is hung low over the bar, and his state unstable. The activity of the pool table behind them out of focus doesn't react to either of them, and their game continues, with the snap of a billiard ball clacking against another, emitting loudly.)) "Talk to me boy." ((Steven folds his hands, looks towards 72 year old man off camera then back forward. 72 year old man sounds hurt, though still not threatening)) "Why are you mad at me?" ((his tone now almost a mutter and his drawl is soaked with drink)) "What for?" ((pause, as Steven shuffles once)) "Is it my skin?" ((Steven looks on in bewilderment, the man not aware of his reasons to feel terrible)) "Huh?" ((Steven sniffs, and there is a brief pause)) "Is it too white for ya?" ((Steven cracks a smile, almost laughing)) "Come on talk to me." ((the weight and sound of footsteps of Voice enter the shot, obscuring the camera with a dark blue shirt briefly, passing from left of shot to the right)) "Gimmie one." ((the sound of pouring liquid from a bottle lasts only but four seconds at most, as the figure then crosses back between the shot and Steven, obscuring for only a moment)) "Why are you mad at me or somethin' at all?"

Steven:((frustrated)) "Just leave me alone." ((not addressing the man, though to the left of the shot, Voice can be seen with another shot glass, pouring the same bottle into it before Steven atop the bar.))

Voice:((voice)) "On the house." ((cut to close up of a cue ball against green felt, a cue stick protruding from the top of the shot, downwards inching towards the ball and back again))

72 year old man:((voice)) "Come on. Just talk to me. Just look at me." ((the cue stick strikes the ball with a clap quickly, hurtling it to the lower end of the shot, connecting to another ball off camera with a loud clack)) "Why aren't you lookin' at me." ((cut to 72 year old man close up, looking past shot, almost smirking)) "Just look at me." ((drunkenly)) "Just tell me why you're mad and I'll listen." ((his smile fades, and his eyes piercing and intense)) "Look at me." ((cut to close up of Steven, the camera facing to the left side of his body as the man behind the bar known as voice is out of focus and beyond the shot))((sterner)) "Look at me." ((Steven cringing not wanting to turn and face the shot, his drink untouched))((softer)) "Come on look at me." ((Steven takes a deep breath)) "Just look." ((Steven turns belligerently towards him and past the shot, his eyes lock in complete disbelief))((cut to facing the 72 year old man, whose body is leaning closer towards the shot. His face has changed to a woman's face, with blondish hair and green eyes, wearing a smart pair of glasses that are round, though fit her face. He also speaks, though his voice is that of a younger man without a southern drawl, and is that of a tri-state New Jersey oriented accent)) " arugay ." ((the sound of his voice is high pitched, and only like YAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYAYA .))

((cut to previous, Steven reacting in horror, the sound of the words continuing, like an echo, as he reacts violently, lunging past the shot fists first, the bartender behind out of focus and yet to react))

((cut to previous, showing now the face of 72 year old man being punched once by a right fist, connecting brutally and so hard that he drunkenly and groggily falls to the left of the shot as Steven enters the shot, pursuing him to the ground aggressively. The voice of the man behind the bar now calls out loudly and angrily))

Voice:((voice)) "Hey! Stop that!" ((cut to facing upwards at Steven, P.O.V. of 72 year old man, punching at the shot violently with a right, then left, maniacally and furiously)) "Stop that! Leave him alone!" ((from the left of shot hurried footsteps with high energy, entering the shot only showing legs, hands, and a lower torso as he grabs at Steven who angrily wrestles him off)) "Get up! Get up! Get the fuck up! Get up!"

Steven:((wrestling))((bellowing)) "Get off of me!" ((cut to close up of the three men at the pool table, facing the end closest to the three, the opposing end towards the end of the room the direction of the door. All three have stopped and stare past the left of the shot as the scuffle is heard. All look about 42 or so, one Caucasian, two who are African American, and are dressed in blue jeans and two in plaid shirts, the other in a wool jacked the color blue.))((more aggressively)) "GET OFF OF ME."

Voice:((voice)) "SHUT UP! GET OUT!" ((cut to over the left shoulder Voice, his shoulders and head facing Steven who breaks free, standing and whipping about, throwing a right punch towards the Voice's left jaw.))

((cut to previous, the three reacting and running towards the left of the shot to enter the fray, one dropping his cue upon the table, the other not and carrying it with him into the shot))

((cut to close up of Steven standing after punching Voice, determined facing towards him. The three men enter the shot quickly, one of them twisting Steven's arm behind his back as they pull him rigid))

((cut to over the right shoulder Voice, the three men holding Steven in place as he throws a single right fist into Steven's nose and mouth, the whiplash knocking Steven's head back once and then back forward))

Voice:((voice)) "Hold him. Hold him." ((cut to facing floor over 72 year old man splayed upon his back arms wide outwards and turning over to his right. He begins to spit up blood and a tooth, otherwise motionless)) "Motherfucker broke my jaw." ((cut to Steven P.O.V. his gaze blurry, fading out of consciousness. Voice stands before him, heavyset Caucasian man, wiping at his jaw and mouth, though his speech seems the same)) "Broke my fuckin' jaw." ((another speaks to the right of the shot without an accent and sober aside from a drink.))

Voice #2:((voice)) "Call the cops." ((Steven's gaze begins to dim)) "This fucker's gonna get locked the fuck up." ((the camera fades to black and hangs in darkness for three seconds. The voice of Sailor from the bay of the U.S.S. Eldridge with a Michigan accent, speaks))

Sailor:((voice)) "Jason!"

Sailor #2:((voice)) "Jason wake up." ((cut to facing Jason on his left side on the plate deck of the Bay, blinking, as behind him the Bay of the Eldridge is in darkness, while the only strong light is pointed directly at his face and body)) "Wake up man."

Sailor:((voice)) "Get up." ((Jason blinks)) "You gotta get up." ((cut to Jason's P.O.V. showing two sailors looking at him, kneeling over him resembling Sailor and Sailor #2 from the Bay scene in body only. Their faces have been replaced by what seems like a different species, but only their faces. Their uniforms are the same, and their appendages are still human in appearance, but their faces are smaller, and have large yellow eyes, gray skin, and almost non-existent mouths. One behind who sounds like Sailor #2 is holding a small bulb, like a flashlight in the direction of the shot, while the light is so dim that their faces can barely be made out.)) "Get up right now." ((cut to Steven lying in a bed on his right side, staring off past the shot. He looks damaged about the nose and mouth, and his eyes as well. It looks like he has been kicked about the head, as there is a bandage around part of his eye socket on the left side. He is lying on his right side in a bed with white sheets that looks like an infirmary. A voice of an African American roughly 29 years old speaks firmly))

African American Man:((voice)) "Get up or I'm gonna pick you up." ((Steven looks beyond the shot, transfixed)) "Steven?" ((cut to previous, the two faces of another species with human bodies looking at the shot, very intrigued, as Sailor in the front appears to be speaking)) "Get up. Get up right now."

Steven:((voice))((softly)) "No." ((cut to previous, Steven looking beyond the shot petrified)) "No I won't get up."

African American Man:((voice)) "That's it." ((the sounds of three sets of footsteps)) "Get his legs." ((the sound of men approaching from the left of shot preempt sets of arms and hands wearing white short sleeved shirts button shirts grabbing at Steven's body, who begins to resist. The arms of three men, two black and one white latch onto him, tugging him to the left of the shot as he struggles, and is dragged across the bed))

Steven:((kicking and screaming)) "LET ME GO! LET ME FUCKING GO!" ((he is dragged off the bed from the base, the sheets and pillow being pulled with him as his arms and wrists are grabbed as well, and is pulled violently away from the bed))((cut to close up of a wheelchair, metal with a brown leather seat, and seatback. Three men wearing white and built are forcing Steven into the shot before the chair, as he struggles in vain. He is pressed back into the chair as he continues to protest and violently resists)) "GET THE FUCK OFF OF ME!!" ((he grunts as the three men force him into the chair, and continues to kick outwards, as one of them holds him down into the chair by pressing downwards onto his shoulders with both hands. He grunts and continues to struggle as one of the men begins to secure his right hand and arm into a restraint on the arm rest of the wheelchair that is a leather strap with buckles that secures at the wrist.))((cut to close up of Steven's right hand, being forced into the restraint as he continues to writhe)) "LET ME GO!" ((cut to the left arm and hand of Steven in the opposing armrest, another's hand, the Caucasian, strapping his wrist firmly into the restraint))((cut to shot of Steven in wheelchair, facing the shot, kicking and screaming)) "AHHHH! GET OFF OF ME!" ((cut to close up of an older man, curly black and brown hair, balding in front, lying upright with his left leg raised in a hospital bed, clean shaven and wearing hospital pajamas, staring silently at the shot as Steven continues to thrash)) "GET THE FUCK OFF OF ME! GET OUT OF HERE!"

Voice #2:((voice))((African American accentless)) "Hold him."

Steven:((voice)) "NO!" ((cut to close up of a younger man, black hair cut short, lying upright in bed, clutching around his legs with both hands, his mouth and chin obscured by his upright knees)) "NO FUCK YOU NO!" ((cut to facing Steven in the wheelchair as he kicks at the shot and the camera jostling as he does, as one of the men, the other African American known previous as Voice, dives upon his legs and feet, his weight suppressing Steven's movement, as the other continues holding his shoulders down. He crosses to the left of the shot to secure his legs and torso to the wheelchair with leather straps)) "GET OFF OF MEEEE!" ((cut to close up of Steven's legs as his left leg is being held down by one of the men, while the other secures it by the knee in place.)) "FUCK YOU!" ((cut to the opposing side as the same is done to Steven's other knee.)) "FUCK YOUUUUAAAAHH! " ((cut to Steven's torso as he is continuing to wriggle, his torso facing the shot as a leather strap is secured over his lower abdomen and white pajama shirt)) "GET OFF OF ME FUCK YOUUUUAH!" ((cut to close up of a hypodermic needle, facing upwards, the plunger expelling liquid from the point, it dripping down the side of the needle, the backdrop out of focus It lowers down out of the shot, held in the hands of a Caucasian set of hands wearing a long set of white sleeves)) "LET ME GO YOU - " ((cut to close up of Steven's right arm as a set of man's hands wearing a white sleeved coat, shown previous, injects Steven's right arm with a two inch needle and syringe and pushes the plunger into his arm)) "FUCKING ASSHOLESzzzz " ((the sedative has a quick effect, as Steven's words and actions become uncoordinated and subdued))((cut to close up of Steven, his expression defiant, his face damaged, while his eyes and mouth are groggy now and show signs of intoxication and sedation)) "NOOOO" ((his head unbalanced and mouth trying to resist with more words))((cut to Steven's P.O.V., his vision groggy, though sees before him a ward of a hospital, with men in pajamas like his in bed to his right along the windows meshed across with metal screens painted white, looking towards him without words. There are two men, foggy in the foreground, both wearing white U.S. Navy uniforms, formal and stand before him fourteen feet away in brilliant sunlight streaking through the meshed windows from the right side. Both have hats in their left hands)) "FUCK YOU." ((pants)) "FUCK YOU." ((Their faces are hard to register, though both are Caucasian and based upon their left chest and lapels, appear to be decorated and distinguished in service and rank. Steven continues to groan and pant through his nostrils and clenched teeth as his vision grows fainter, and the shot grows dimmer)) "FUCK ALL OF YOU" ((his voice softer and more sedated)) "Fuck 'em." ((cut to Steven's face, expressing dismay and confusion past the shot towards the two men, squinting and nearly sobbing once more, lips curled around lacerations and wounds from the fight now healing)) "Fuck you." ((beginning to cry))((cut to close up of Steven's right arm, as the syringe is removed by the same set of long white sleeved hands))

((cut to focus close up, of a large round sounding block a circular flat piece of wood used corresponding to a gavel in a courtroom to which the impact is laid upon, resting flat upon a wooden surface elevated over the foreground which is out of focus. In the foreground is the conceptualized understanding of a courtroom in the United States of America from the beginning of the 20th century to the current era, though illuminated by neon ballasts above the top of the frame. There are two tables, the prosecution to the right of shot, and the defense to the left of the shot. Between these two tables and the chairs that face towards the shot behind them, is a small barrier made of metal and wood, dividing the two tables from several rows of mostly occupied chairs. There are several witnesses, mostly men and some women, only distinguished by their outlines. The environment isn't smoggy with tobacco, though the evidence of trials past illustrates the lingering presence of some long ago before the moments shown. A gavel's cry pierces the shot with a loud THAK upon the sounding block, and is then left upon the top of the surface where the camera rests facing out. A man's voice, a veteran from Tennessee and aged 79 years begins to speak))

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "Proceed counsel." ((A man who is shy of 40 years old and a native of Los Angeles begins to speak. His voice originates from the right of the shot where the prosecution is seated, though he stands, with both hands upon the top of the table which he was seated))

Counsel:((voice)) "Your honor we are of the fact of thought that Mr. Harston - " ((cut to close up of Steven staring blankly past the shot, still sedated, groggy, and motionless. He is still strapped to the wheelchair while behind him are several individuals out of focus)) " - was aware of his choices the night of the alleged assault." ((Steven is barely conscious and blinks, while his mouth is open and a line of drool is escaping from his lips)) "He was aware of his choices during the assault and several witnesses corroborate that he had one drink. He was aware of his choices when the arresting officers arrived and were subsequently forced to place him into submission to arrest him. He was described as adversarial and belligerent, and unwilling to submit to orders. At the scene he was described as manic, and unable to concentrate to follow orders. It is the opinion of the counsel that Mr. Harston should undergo a psychiatric evaluation before being considered to be incarcerated - " ((Steven's face has now looked past the shot, focused intensely past the camera and fixed beyond the picture and right of frame and interrupts))

Steven:((mumbling)) "No.." ((there is a pause, followed by a moment later where the prosecution, Counsel, begins to speak once more))

Counsel:((voice)) " - Then to be remanded to a government facility where he will receive additional testing to see if he is capable to be transferred to a state prison to complete his sentence in accordance with state laws." ((the voice of the 79 year old veteran speaks))

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "Counselor?" ((the shot slides to the right, to reveal a man not much older than Steven with black hair and a dark blue suit, who rises from his chair, and stands at the shot, the camera skew upwards towards his face from the surface of the defense table. He is clean shaven and speaks with an accent of the state of California as well))

Counselor: "Your honor we agree to the stipulations of the state's request. My client is suffering from acute dementia that caused him to be removed from duty in Motor Pool from the United States Army base just outside Sacramento prior to the assault." ((cut to close up of Steven, previous angle, where Steven himself is lost past the shot to the right, still fixed beyond without words spoken and his expression entranced)) "He was found with drugs on his person one previous arrest that occurred on base, was incarcerated and sentenced to twelve weeks solitary confinement, where the penalty was waived following because of decent conduct and was found fit to be on duty once more. Following the arrest for the assault, the United States Army formally discharged my client and opted not to aid him in defense prior to my involvement in this case. It is the request of prosecution, that my client be remanded to the State Sanitarium of Sacramento California following this hearing for an arraignment of his sense and faculties."

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "Does prosecution agree to the terms in question?" ((there is a cough in the back of the courtroom of a young woman))

Counsel:((voice))((sound of half standing at his seat)) "We do your honor"

Steven:((fixed and now more aware and conscious)) "No..." ((there is a pause, followed by him speaking once more)) "No fuckin' way..." ((there is a cough from the prosecution in the otherwise silent courtroom, when Steven speaks louder now, firmer, and with his teeth clenched and trying to rise from his wheelchair)) "No - fuckin' - way ." ((he is unable to break free of his restraints but rigidly and determined, attempts to rise out of the chair and at the right of the shot))

79 year old veteran:((voice))((very sternly)) "Mr. Harston do you have something to say in your defense?" ((Steven seems more vigorous now))

Steven:((panting once then loudly speaking)) "FUCK - YOU !" ((begins to struggle in the wheelchair, it jostling as he moves. The courtroom reacts, as a woman and two men behind him in the foreground out of focus gasp, as 79 year old veteran calmly and firmly reacts as well))

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "Bailiff?" ((there is the sound of movement from off camera, as indecipherable whispers come from the rear of the courtroom. Steven continues to act angry and erratic, never taking his gaze off from past the shot to the right of the frame.))

Counsel:((voice)) "Sir! We have orders don't let him on the ship." ((Steven's gaze snaps to the right of the shot towards the prosecution, his face twisted and deranged in confusion))((cut to Steven's P.O.V. to the prosecution table, where a man who resembles 1st LT , known in part one as John, speaking facing towards the right of the shot in the direction of the front of the room, to where the Judge normally sits. The voice of the prosecutor remains the same, but the appearance is that of John from the bridge of the U.S.S. Eldridge. Steven's motions and struggles can still be heard over the courtroom and his words)) "If he continues to come here we have to abort the mission. He's not supposed to be here."

Counselor:((voice)) "Sir?" ((the shot shakily veers closer to the left, towards defense, who now resembles a man wearing a beige U.S. Navy uniform of World War 2 though of about 42 years age with shaved black hair and brown eyes and some stubble. He also faces towards the front of the courtroom, where he faces the judge and the right of the shot)) "We don't have any proof that he wasn't here. He could easily have been from the ship. We don't know for certain if he was from the vessel Eldridge or if his name Y7V ((pronounced yell )) and creating this problem in a worse way. He'll continue to MZII ((pronounced MEEEEL )) and BUTTR ((pronounced A )) and create a problem. We can't allow him to STOP ((pronounced stop )) or we'll Y7ZA ((pronounced yellow )) apart A ((pronounced EEC )) " ((the shot shakily moves towards 79 year old veteran's position towards the right, as the sounds of the courtroom continue. The judge's pulpit is a very large pillar the color BLUU ((or green lowercase)) and is the same dimensions as the vertical tube found in the Bay of the U.S.S. Eldridge. At the top of the vertical tube is a YELOO ((the color blue lowercase)) beam, that enters the shot from the rear of the courtroom, and begins to change to the color REEEEDD ((or green blue lowercase)) and fluctuates, vibrating with the room and changes the way the room looks with an outwards beam that seems like a ripple but is the color BLUUUUU (( green and yellow lowercase)). At first the room is a deep red, then a blue, but followed by green and yellow. Every voice in the courtroom begins to change in pitch, as though it had been recorded on DAT and was being altered and rising in pitch, as Steven's disruption continues, his voice remains constant and his struggles as well. The pitch of the courtroom behind him and around him changes from high to low, but seems to mimic HI - HO a song chorus from a Walt Disney movie 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarves.' The light changes to a brilliant YLO ((the color blue lowercase)) and stays there, and speaks in the voice of 79 year old veteran.))

79 year old veteran:((the pillar vibrating slightly while this speech occurs)) "He'll find out about the WCC ((pronounced wheel )) and then we're finished with HIMM ((pronounced venturo )) and we'll find the CCP ((pronounced doer )) ." ((cut to close up of Steven facing to the right of shot, being restrained from movement, a Bailiff in a tan uniform shit and dark brown slacks and a black leather laced utility belt entering from behind the wheelchair back into shot to do so)) "If he finds out D ((pronounced AHZZ )) we'll say he didn't do IT ((pronounced AZZ )) and we'll deny that he ever talked at all. He's just a misprint. " ((Steven struggles)) "Whoever says he was doing this is a liar, and held him responsible for something he didn't do." ((Steven begins to struggle less, more confused than irate now))

Steven:((softly)) "What?" ((still groggy from the sedation))

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "Until we find out where the WEEECC ((pronounced Z )) is, we cannot actually find DILLL ((pronounced ADADA )). And when we do this man will not be held responsible." ((Steven's gaze becomes more lucid and confused))((cut to 79 year old veteran, whose face is a yellow beam, in the shape of the horizontal tube found in the Bay of the U.S.S. Eldridge that pulses YELO (( green lowercase)) and BLUU (( yellow and red lowercase)) "Until then, he has to take responsibility for SOMEOONEEEEELSSSEEEEZZ ((pronounced jonnathnnstvvnss44A771219090A7E )) 's actions, and that's isn't fair, but we have no choice."

Steven:((cut to close up, Steven previous angle, groggy and bewildered)) "What?"

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "We must sentence you to DETTHH ((pronounced ABA )) or 3NANAC " ((pronounced 40YERRZINJAL ))((Steven, reacts frantically, and enraged))

Steven:((irate)) "What?!"

Counsel:((voice)) "You have to go to JAAAL ((pronounced DOFE )) to stop A ((pronounced D ))((Steven, not understanding the spelling and only hearing the pronunciation, is in hysterics))

Steven:((writhing and gritting his teeth)) "This isn't fair I don't know what you're saying."

Counselor:((voice)) "Your honor, we can't allow him to talk about this." ((Steven grunts)) "He's under sedation and not allowed to speak on matters of national security."

79 year old veteran:((voice))((pause as Steven squints and grimaces past shot)) "You have to elaborate." ((Steven's face now puzzled))((cut to Steven P.O.V. 79 year old veteran, now back in the form of himself, wearing judge's robes and seated upon the same high riser and pulpit overlooking the courtroom, and not looming over but the specific height. The setting behind him is normal, and the vertical tube is not longer present. He is gazing towards the shot with the same level of confusion that Steven exhibits, then cocks his head slightly towards Counselor))

Counselor:((voice)) "It is for reasons of national security that Mr. Harston's name cannot be included in any testimony in any way that would impede United States Military affairs as stipulated in previous affairs in extraneous circumstances such as this."

79 year old veteran:((reacting sternly))((curtly)) "I'd would like to see evidence of this please."

Counselor:((voice)) "Yes your honor." ((there is the shifting of papers as the sound of Steven's panting can be heard, intermittent and not life threatening, though he sounds calmer. The shuffling of paper stops, as though the Counselor has made a discovery. 79 year old veteran motions slightly with his right hand towards the shot, and looks beyond slightly))

79 year old veteran: "Bailiff please." ((a second set of footsteps walks towards where the shuffling papers had been rifled, and the footsteps are heavier than the other Bailiff, the sound of clinking handcuffs as well while taking each step, then stopping near the shot. 79 year old veteran remains calm, as the second set of footsteps approaches his bench carrying a set of paperwork roughly seven pages. He is African American, with a trimmed afro, 198 lbs and is clean shaven wearing the same uniform as the other Bailiff, beige short sleeve shirt button up, with dark slacks and a woven dark leather utility belt)) "Thank you." ((79 year old veteran takes the set of papers, as the Bailiff leaves the shot to the left of the shot, his movements ending after three seconds off camera and becoming still. 79 year old veteran produces a set of reading glasses calmly, and begins to assess the papers before him, holding them up barely above the top of his bench. He flips to a second page, not reacting to Steven's emotions, who is not able to remain calmer than he has already become, even with the drugs in his system. 79 year old veteran looks up past the shot towards Counselor towards left of P.O.V.)) "Are you aware this is not properly formatted?"

Counselor:((voice))((pauses)) "No sir I did not." ((79 year old, scrutinizing the pages once more, lowers eyebrows))

79 year old veteran: "It's intriguingly vague." ((flips to third page after two seconds)) "Almost as though it was written too fast." ((pauses, examining)) "Part of this indicates that he is not allowed to speak of matters regarding national security yet he is allowed to speak about matters of his own rank and identification." ((breathes deep)) "Which is strange." ((cut to Steven previous angle close up, panting nervously, his eyes widening and slimming)) "Normally he wouldn't be allowed to speak at all, especially if he was involved with someone that was considered secret or of national precedent, and needed to be refrained from public eye."

Counselor:((voice)) "That is what I was told your honor."

Steven:((teeth gritted, his eyes widening in fear)) "Please god no." ((cut to Steven's P.O.V., facing towards the front and towards 79 year old veteran, the surroundings now pitch black, and at the pulpit seated now a creature, that is like an insect, green in color and resembling a mantis. There is only a small amount of light, and the eyes are glazed over white. The paperwork is still in the grips of the figure, though a mantis, and the sound of the room sounds like an open auditorium, much larger and echoing. There is the sound of motion, not like wind, but gusts, as though the ceiling is very high as well))

79 year old veteran:((voice remains the same)) "Was there any other information offered?"

Counselor:((voice)) "The identification of his name was all I requested your honor. This was included as well." ((the mantis looks at the documents with scrutiny, four sets of appendages pressing upon the pages which still look the same as well. He looks up, staring at the shot, and at Steven, who reacts, shivering and the shot quaking, terrified upon the gaze meeting his))

Steven:((voice))((whispering hoarsely)) "No stop. Don't - look at me." ((the mantis looks at him, one right eye leaning in, his face as well, though both eyes open and head cocking in confusion, like a human would. Steven screams as the camera shakes, and the mantis reacts slowly)) "DON'T LOOK AT MEEEE!!!! " ((he begins to sob as the mantis moves back slowly atop the pulpit, motionless for a moment and gazing at the shot))((cut to Steven close up as the sounds around him grow more volatile, while still those found in a human courtroom. His eyes tear filled and his teeth gritted as he screams again)) "STOOOOPP!! " ((he continues to cry. There is the slamming of a gavel as the commotion grows too loud, followed by another. 79 year old veteran speaks))

79 year old veteran:((voice))((booming once)) "Enough!" ((gavel slams a second time, and he speaks sternly)) "Quiet." ((the courtroom hushes, as Steven continues to grapple with what he sees, senses, and hears. The shifting of papers continues once more as 79 year old veteran off camera continues to read. He clears his throat once before speaking once more)) "Is this man capable of identifying his last name?" ((pause, as Steven is twitching in place, looking beyond the shot)) "I won't allow him to be transferred to a mental health clinic if he cannot remember his first name either." ((Steven's eyes widen, and he begins to scream, loudly at first then begins to quiet.))

Steven:((loudly)) "OH GOOOODD!! " ((he spasms, the courtroom reacts once more, and the thunder of a gavel quakes the shot, and the room silent once again. Steven twitches and shivers in horror))((cut to Steven P.O.V. revealing where the pulpit was is now a green circle, where 79 year old veteran once sat. In the center is a face similar to one seen previously when Jason was asked to get up, grayish with black eyes, and resembles human, though portly with black skin and shoulder length black hair, whose mouth is in the shape of the letter ' o ', lips shaped in a way pronouncing the letter, ' kissing ' outwards with lips. The surroundings are the colors yellow and blue, the once noisy courtroom now silent from the strike of the gavel, and the effect of sound dampening slightly, though making the room seem more enclosed and not as vast as previous. The acoustics imply an oval shape, with the elongated ends to the right and left.))

79 year old veteran: "I will not have you outburst any longer. You will be silent and be calm. You will not react to me any longer." ((cut back to Steven, teeth jittering in fear past the shot to the right)) "Is that understood?" ((Steven cannot respond immediately)) "Answer me right now."

Steven:((shakily)) "Yeeees." ((shaking and jittering, teeth chattering slightly))

79 year old veteran:((voice))((softly but sternly)) "Good." ((pauses)) "No, what you are going to do for me is say your name." ((Steven begins to shudder more, his expression changing as his eyes grow larger, the lids exposing them in more surprise than before. He pants)) "Do you understand?"

Steven:((nodding, but only slightly, still rigid in fear))((stammers)) "Yeeees." ((his breaths shaky and nervous))((cut to Steven's P.O.V. showing the face of a being that was seen on the face of Sailor and Sailor #2 when Jason was being asked to stand up. There is only the face and no head, no body, against a yellow and black background, vertical bars, thick, roughly four feet by four feet. The bars are flat, and rounded off at the edges and holding still. The face is gray, shaped like a guitar pick, with the pointed edge facing downward. The face has a small horizontal mouth, and the eyes are large teardrop shaped and angled inward, the color black))

79 year old veteran: "Now, what is your full name?" ((the sound of the court is vacant, as though it's only Steven and the face with the voice of 79 year old veteran. Steven can be heard reacting, stammering for breath, as the face looks at the shot inquisitively))

Steven:((voice))((stammering)) "S-SSteven." ((shivering))

79 year old veteran:((pausing))((voice, the mouth not moving and not speaking cruelly)) "I asked for your full name only. One more time, what is your full name?" ((Steven cannot answer, petrified, as the voice of 79 year old man isn't as stern, but still direct)) "Please respond, what is your name?" ((Steven cannot find words, as the shot shakes before the voice. He is in shock, shuddering and the shot quakes as well)) "If you cannot answer because you are not able to remember, that is not allowed to be considered against you." ((cut to Steven close up, facing to the right of the shot, eyes wide and his breath sporadic, as he trembles towards the right of the shot, remaining rigid)) "You must be aware of that." ((Steven pants)) "There are laws to protect you if you don't remember."

Steven:((mouthing letters, then speaking)) " H-H-H-Harston."

79 year old veteran:((voice))((pausing momentarily)) "Is that your last name?" ((pause, the courtroom silent aside from Steven)) "I asked for your full name." ((there is a pause while Steven's lips are curled, then attempt to form a statement, but cannot speak)) "I've seen enough."

Counsel:((voice)) "Your honor if I may?"

79 year old veteran:((voice))((interjecting)) "No no no, this man is in shock. He's not going to be capable of testifying or producing a statement." ((brief pause)) "He is under due strain and incapable of understanding." ((Steven continues to look past the shot, his breath calmer, but still gripped in fear)) "Unable to understand what I'm saying." ((cut to P.O.V. of Steven, showing 79 year old veteran, and the surroundings once more returned to normal, though atop his head a YELOO (( green )) wig, that has hair parted on the top of his head, shoulder length. He shakes his head and the hair sways as he stares at the shot, and directly at Steven)) "Do you understand me?" ((pauses)) "Hmmmm?" ((Steven pants once, more bewildered than before)) "Do you hear what I'm saying?"

Steven:((voice)) "Y-Yes." ((79 year old veteran offers a confused gaze towards the shot, scrutiny in his slimmed eyes))

79 year old veteran:((closing lips, then speaking)) "Do you understand that you're in trouble?" ((pausing)) "That this is a court of the land, that you are actually in a courtroom being judged as a man? That you have actually committed a crime?" ((Steven's voice lost, not responsive aside from breathing, as 79 year old veteran squints at the shot, judging Steven)) "Do you know you are committing a crime by not answering if you are capable of answering?" ((Steven answers only one word))

Steven:((voice)) "No..." ((the hair of the wig begins to grow longer for a moment, and longer like LONNG7 , but goes back to being the original length, or SHOORTT7Z . 79 year old veteran glares at the shot))

79 year old veteran: "Are you aware that you say I do not remember to any accusation if you do not recall the events in question?"

Steven:((voice))((stammers after a second of pause)) "Yes."

79 year old veteran:((looks towards the shot surgically)) "You know what I mean?" ((Steven is heard breathing heavier, as the wig on 79 year old veteran's pulses like it is alive.))

Steven:((voice)) "N-No." ((79 year old veteran looks concerned))

79 year old veteran: "I mean you realize I am not allowed to try you if you don't understand what I'm saying at all? It's not allowed." ((cut to close up of Steven, transfixed past the shot still)) "It's considered persecution, and not permitted by the U.S. constitution, and not by our state either." ((Steven seems a little calmer, blinking only once)) "I can't allow it, and it's not allowed in this courtroom." ((there is a four second pause)) "Do you know why I'm saying that?"

Steven:((calmer, shaking his head slightly)) "No."

79 year old veteran:((voice)) "It's because I don't want to." ((Steven almost completely relieved)) "I don't need to. I believe that it's wrong to do that, and I won't be party to it either." ((Steven looks more confused than before, his eyes still fixed past the shot, never breaking, but his bow is furrowed))((cut to 79 year old veteran, who now has no wig whatsoever and the courtroom is still as it appears in California. He stares straight at the shot)) "Do you understand what I'm saying now?" ((looking towards the shot, inquisitively, and not at all cruelly or judgmental))

Steven:((voice))((breathing out once, relieved)) "Yes." ((79 year old veteran nods))

79 year old veteran: "Now, let's get back to \- " ((before his statement finishes, Steven reacts in horror once more. His hair moves and produces a small green line that enters the center of the shot pointed towards Steven. Steven's breath reacts terrified as the green line travels at his face, filling his vision with YELO (((green))). 79 year old veteran's expression is obscured, but his last gaze is towards the shot, stern, as Steven's cry fills the room))

Steven:((voice)) "No." ((the green line travels at him and the shot, his scream frustrated and alarmed)) " NOOOO " ((the screen completely green)) " NOOOO!! " ((the screen suddenly flicks to the color yellow, as the shot pans backwards to reveal the bay of the U.S.S. Eldridge bathed in YELO (((green))) light, the entire Bay contrasted in the color green with dark green and black shadows. The yellow dripped away and sporadically flicking to the shade after four seconds as the shot pans back. Pulling back, the vertical tube is revealed, and pulls back through the Bay very slowly, as the crew members seem frozen in place, standing in the original placements when the experiment first began. Their reactions the same the minute the experiment began, though only a few have their faces shown. Georgia Sailor is still directly next to the vertical tube and his assigned valve, but is looking away from the light from the vertical tube, and towards the right of the shot. The entire scene is frozen, and the light pulsing and rhythm is that of 7 beats per minute, as Steven's voice can still be heard, as well as his breathing)) "NOO GOD NO! NOOOO! " ((the scene continues to pull backwards revealing the entire Bay, revealing it to be the P.O.V. of Jason, still leaning over his designated valve and the horizontal tube. Before him tot he lower frame is Sailor, still at valve number eight between the camera and the vertical tube beyond the shot. There is no sound aside from the light pulsing at 7 beats per minute, making a noise like ZOOOOzzzzzzzzz and repeating, the upper case letters the emphasis on a scale of volume, while the lower case either an echo is dissipation of the volume. Steven's voice can still be heard along with his breathing, which is heavy)) "NO! NOOOO! " ((he pants, nearly shivering))((cut to close up of Jason, breathing heavily his body cast in green and black, as well as the surroundings about him. He is hyperventilating, as the pulsing light seems to emanate words, at first the sound AAAA followed by another, that was identified as AOF7 which sounded like BEEEE , then finally AGAY7V which sounded like CEEEE , as Jason is left kneeling, the camera lowering casting him rising up off his knees, standing in the shot, looking about. He pants once in fear))((cut to close up a row of sailors cast in green kneeling before a horizontal tube, and before several valves apiece. The sound of the repeating pulse continues, the sounds AAAA then BEEEE and CEEEEEEEEEEEE . as Steven's breath and panting continues, still in the form of Jason once more))((cut to close up of the vertical tube pulsing, Georgia Sailor unmoved still and still looking to the right of shot away from the tube))((cut to Jason, looking past frenzied expression, then looking slightly right, terrified))((cut to P.O.V., and standing before him is Jason, looking directly at him, and standing with his back towards the bay and the vertical tube, directly behind his face. He looks the exact same as he did that day, only cast in green and black, the pulsing of the vertical tube continuing. He looks directly at the shot))

Jason: "You aren't here, and you were never me."

Steven:((voice))((going mad)) "AHHHH!!!! "((cut to close up facing Steven, now skew facing right where Jason had been standing previous, screaming in complete bewildered terror. He is wearing blue hospital pajamas and a blue robe, and still looks injured from the altercation)) "AHHHHHHHHHHHH! " ((a voice interrupts him, and he reacts immediately, quiet and shocked))

Voice:((48 year old man, Kentucky accent)) " STOPSTOPSTOPSTOP " ((cut to extreme close up of a man's face, roughly 48 years old Caucasian, bald, clean shaven, and wearing light blue and seated in a chair, looking towards the right of the shot. The background behind him, cast in white with other dressed in blue robes or blue smock shirts, in colored plastic chairs, others standing motionless or walking slowly)) " STOP ." ((mouth claps shut, then continues to speak quickly past the shot, words snapping)) " JUSTSTOP . ONLYSTOP . STOPTHAT . STOP . STOPSTOP . STOPTHESTOP . " ((cut to facing Steven, seated in a blue plastic chair that has a back that reaches his shoulders. He is facing forward past the shot hyperventilating. He looks like he has aged six years, his wounds have healed but have left scars, and he has a grizzled beard and hair cut and shaved at the sides. He is dressed in a light blue robe with a blue smock shirt beneath, while a man behind him in a blue bathroom paces slowly back and forth from left to right of the shot. Steven continues to not react, as the Kentucky man continues)) " STOPTHAT . STOPSTOPSTOP . STOPTHATNOW . ((sounded like ONEDASAYA which made Steven stop hyperventilating quickly, and blinks, as though snapped back to where he is tangibly. He blinks once more as the other man continues)) " STOPTHATGY . " ((sounds like STOPTHEB as one of the voices behind him can be heard as well))

Voice #2: ((29 years old, California accent)) " Stop iffff " ((spoken twelve times total as he paces))

Voice:((voice)) " STOPTHATNOW ." ((sounds like STOPTHEBAT as Steven shakily looks to the right of the shot and around, his eyes tracing beyond the shot)) " STOPTHATSTOP . ((sounds like STOPTHEA )) STOPUHAASTOP ." ((sounds like STOPGAYA as Steven looks around, paranoid and shakily. He looks to his left, or the right of the shot, then to his immediate right towards the voice of the man who is from Kentucky))((cut to previous, Kentucky Man, known previous as Voice, his face painted BLUUUU (((the color red ))) , the background behind him the color YELOOOOOOOOO ((( blue and red))) and those in the background the color YELO ((( red and blue ))) " STOP77 ." ((sounds like STOPAAAA )) " STOPTHE77E " ((sounds like STOPATHRREEAOFE )) " STOPGAYA " ((sounds like STOPSEVEENTHEGAYOFE ))((cut to previous, to Steven facing to the left of the shot, blinking and shuddering, hearing different than the words stated for the viewer, and looks disoriented for more reasons than that. He begins to turn back forward and to the right of the shot, blinking erratically as he does.)) " STOPAA " ((sounds like STOPIT , and Kentucky Man begins to state this repeatedly))

((cut to Steven's P.O.V. now gazing towards the opposing side of his location, revealing it to be a room painted eggshell white, with hex crossed mesh over the windows facing along a wall to the right of the shot extending. There are four individuals standing in that direction, all wearing clothes that look like pajamas, and have robes over them all the color blue, like Steven's. All of them are men of varying ages, heights, and hair types, though now all their skin are the color BLUU ((( green and yellow ))). Judging based upon their hair and physical attributes of the face and body, they are Caucasian, to the far left of the shot are three men, all wearing white shirts and slacks with black shoes, the color of the skin BLUU ((( green and red ))), and judging in the same manner, two are African American in the center and right of the shot, while the furthest to the left is Armenian and looks of Middle Eastern descent. They are standing facing one another in almost a U formation, one in the center facing outwards while the other two stand facing each other at his side. All are muscular and stand in the semi circle, one of them standing arms crossed towards the shot, the one center. The voice from Kentucky Man continues to talk, badgering Steven, while the three men don't say anything discernable. Of the four men in robes, one stands in place, moving back and forth occasionally losing his step, as though guided by a string on the top of his head, wobbling him up and down. He is older and thinner than the others. Another closer to the windows stands staring out of them. His face is barely visible, but he has black hair and is angular, standing like a statue. The third moves close, and then looks away, shuffling once and turning, his direction almost aimless, and each directly altered abruptly in course following roughly two steps. His gaze is clouded and his course not based in motive. He speaks to himself, occasionally touching the left side of his face with his right hand. Steven hearing words))

Man with gaze:((shaking head)) " Don't say. Don't say. Don't say. " ((Kentucky Man continues loudly))

Kentucky Man:((formerly Voice))((voice)) " STOPIT " ((sounds like STOPA , he repeats himself, over twelve times and quickly)) " STOPD " ((sounds like STOPITIT which he repeats five times quickly))((Steven's P.O.V. and frantic breath snaps to his front, blurring briefly, revealing a figure before him Jason, standing upright and before him, but looking different; deceased. His eyes are glazed over, his skin is bluish gray, and his features look somewhat sunken. He stands before the shot, with four others, all wearing the same naval uniforms as that day, though not faded, ripped, torn, or otherwise weathered. The others are Sailor #2, Sailor, and another man who manned valve number seventeen previously known as Georgia Sailor. All of them look as though they have been deceased for over 12 years and appear to be mummified, except for their eyes and mouths. All of them speak together, their voices not dead or sound in any way deceased))

Sailors & Jason: " WHEERIZTHEGREEN??? " ((sounds like AZAZAZESANAAAASANASAYAAASANAAAA ))

Steven:((voice))((terrified)) "No- NO!"

Kentucky Man:((voice)) " STOPTHEA " ((sounds like STOPIIT repeating, as the others nearby continue speaking their own statements))

Steven:((voice)) "NO! FUCK YOU NO!" ((Steven in the grips of fear, looks up to his left towards the ceiling to see the Cartoon Head once more, the colors GREENANDBLKKK ((( green and black outlines ))) who resembles the cartoon mouse from a television show aired on Italian TV known now as Italia. The Cartoon mouse is looking down at him from the ceiling and gives him a confused look, head cocking once to the right.))

Steven:((voice))((camera shuddering)) "Oh Jesus no!" ((his gaze blurs to the right, to where Jason and the sailors once stood, only standing there in their place, is a man with brown hair and brown skin and a beard with black hair. He has blue eyes, and is staring at the shot, and Steven with them, though not malevolently. He wears a yellow suit jacket, no hat, red pants and a blue shirt that doesn't look like it has buttons. He smiles at the shot, eyebrows raised once and speaks))

Man: " miyrsavirr " ((sounds like AAUHHHUUHHSAYAAASAYAA ))((Steven begins to erupt in mania, as the voice of Kentucky Man now alters as well))

Kentucky Man:((voice)) " STOPAAASAYII " ((sounds like STOPPAAASAYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA ))

Steven:((voice))((screaming over Kentucky Man)) " AHHHHHHHHHHHH!! " ((cut to facing Steven facing at the shot's lower left corner in the brink of madness, screaming maniacally past the shot, shuddering in terror and rising up out of the blue plastic chair slightly, kicking himself back away from the shot, and flailing with his feet towards the Man off camera.))((cut to wide shot, Kentucky Man to the left of the shot facing Steven intensely berating him, Man absent from the shot as Steven continues kicking towards where he was standing, as Kentucky Man veers back, standing back upwards to the left of the shot. Steven continues to howl crazed, as Kentucky Man now screams differently))

Kentucky Man: " EEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! " ((repeating, sounds like " ooo " repeating, but emphasis on OH - OH - OH . as Steven continues to flail and kick, losing his balance in the chair and screaming))

Steven: " KILL IT! KILL IT! " ((cut to close up of the three man, dressing in white quickly running towards the shot as the chaos around the room begins to take hold, many other screaming words that sound different to Steven than they appear to the reader and viewer))

Kentucky Man:((voice)) " NOOOO !" ((sounds like " AHHHH!!!!!!!!! " ))

Steven:((voice)) "FUCKIN' KILL IT!" ((cut to close up of Steven, kicking himself back in the chair)) "JUST FUCKIN' KILL IT!" ((the three men rush into the shot, grabbing Steven by his arms and head, the third an African American man holds his arms while the other grabs at his legs, desperately trying to restrain him)) " KILL IT FOR FUCK - " ((wrestling with the three)) " - KILL IT ! JUST FUCKIN' KILL IT!" ((one of the men in white holds him while he strains and tried to kick himself free, and hits him on the top of his head with his right hand quickly, four times. On the fifth, the scene cuts to black, and is silent. The shot hangs in darkness for three seconds, and begins to pan outwards from a human eye, Steven's. He blinks one once sluggishly, as the shot begins to pan outwards from his left eye. He is staring up past the shot as the camera continues to pan outwards. He has gauze that is bloody on the top of his head, and he is lying upon his back in a hospital bed wearing a hospital gown. The bed's neat and starched white sheets are pulled up to his chest. He begins to breathe heavily as the shot hangs, bird's eye view over his face and head, which rests atop a white sheeted pillow.))

((cut to P.O.V. Steven, looking up at the ceiling with two florescent ballasts, neither blinking but one humming, set horizontally. The ballast furthest hums))

Ballast:((in A )) " FINNNDTHEWAAALLLLEESAYYEEESAYESAYNAOFESANANA ." ((the shot begins to trace to the left, revealing a small window, meshed in a hex metal frame, the outdoors dark and eerie. His head turns to the right, revealing a small table, and below it a small stand. In the center is the small table, where atop is a picture that is drawn by him of a small mouse, YELOANDGREEN (( green and blue )) in color, and looking at him from the wall. It is draped across the top of the table on a small piece of cardboard BRWNNANDYELO (( blue and black )) in color. The colors of the room seem to be BLUUUUANDBLK (( yellow and blue)), and the "wallpaper" seems to be BLUU (( red )). All these colors seems to be erratic for the room in question, though Steven seems to have grown accustomed. He looks down towards his chest and stomach, and sees directly below his chest between his solar plexus and his pelvis, is the Cartoon Head of the green mouse, the face confused and head cocked, looking at the shot as he has before. The camera shudders, as Steven's voice reacts))

Steven:((voice))((groggy, softly)) "No." ((shot shaking, as though Steven is shaking his head)) "Noooo."

Cartoon Head: " FARPFARPFARPDASATEZAZA " ((sounds like AIIIIZANANASASAAAAASASAAAAAAAAASANASASADADASASASASANANASANASAZAZAAAAASAOFAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAASAYAAASANASASA ))

Steven:((voice))((groggy, and not seeing the words and only hearing the sounds still)) "No just don't coming here." ((cut to bird's eye view of Steven, his face looking down to the base of the frame leaning up out of the bed slightly.)) "I don't know what you want just leave me alone." ((winces and slams his head back upon the pillow, gritting his teeth and clenching his eyes shut)) "Just leave me alone." ((he begins to pant)) "Just leave me alone." ((he continues to pant, his eyes closed, though he appears to be calmer after a moment. A voice interrupts however, after he is still and calmer for four seconds))

Sailor #2:((voice)) "You have to get up." ((Steven winces again, he shakes his head slightly))

Steven:((about to cry)) "No." ((begins to cry, frustrated)) "No I don't have to get up."

Sailor #2:((voice)) "Steven get up." ((his eyes open slightly, looking past to the left of the shot)) "Get up Steven." ((he looks down shakily towards the lower frame, leaning up slightly))

((cut to Steven's P.O.V. towards the foot of the bed, where there are four figures standing. They are all bipedal, all the color GRAAY (( red and yellow and blue )), with teardrop shaped eyes that face inwards and heads with points on the chin in the shape of guitar picks, and their bodies angular and elongated at the limbs and fingers. The room is the color GREEEEN (( blue and red, not interchanging, at the same solid and unchanged at every angle)) "You have to GETUP ."

Steven:((voice))((screaming)) " NOOOO ." ((one of the figures tries to put a left hand forward, in a reasoning manner, and sounds like Jason))

Jason:((voice)) "Steven you have to listen to us. We need you to GETUP ."

Steven:((voice))((shot shaking)) "FUCK YOU! AND GET THE FUCK OUT AND DON'T COME BACK!"

Sailor:((in the rear, the one to the right)) "Steven! We need you to help us!" ((cut to facing Steven from the foot of the bed, his face and features twisted in frustration gritting his teeth and trying to hold back tears, panting in anger)) "Don't look away, just look at me how do we stop this, we have to get out of THSS ." ((Steven shaking his head as though he doesn't understanding what is being said)) "Just look at me how do we STOPTHSS ?" ((Steven lurches up, facing at the shot and produces a bloodcurdling scream))

Steven:((loudly)) "JUST GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE" ((writhing, and ripping at the sheets and kicking furiously, unstable and frustrated)) "I'LL KILL YOU I'LL FUCKING KILL YOU GET THE FUCK OUT! GET OUT! GET OUT! GET OUT!" ((rolls over to his right side, begins to scream and cry, pulling at the pillow and sheets and kicking the sheets with his legs more)) " AHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!! " ((sobbing loudly))((cut to behind the figures, showing the backs of four sailors and the figure of a man of BLUU (( in red )) that looks like a jumpsuit, or a set of coveralls. The four sailors are Georgia Sailor, Sailor #2, Sailor, and Jason, while the man in the red jumpsuit is only shown from behind, and has brown hair with no bald spots. Steven's words now sound different))

Steven:((sobbing loudly, sounds like AHAHAHSAY over and over)) " GASANASATEZAZASANASAZAYZASANAOFAAA " ((he continues to sob on his right side, obscured by the figures and the man in red))

Sailor #2:((voice)) "What does that even mean?"

Sailor:((voice)) "I don't know but we have to find a way out of A ."

Jason:((voice)) "Look, we need to know who you are." ((the four turn about to face the man in the red jumpsuit, who remains stationary)) "And I need to know what you're saying."

Man in Red Jumpsuit:((voice))((his words sound like AZ repeating and then nothing but THAAT over and over again)) " GASANASASAZAKEDASANA " ((cut to facing Jason and Sailor to the right of shot, Sailor #2 to the right off camera while Georgia Sailor to the left barely on camera. Jason reacts to the words spoken by the Man in Red Jumpsuit with confusion, but attempting to understand)) " SOTSANASANASAZANASANAZANANASAOFSASAZATHENANASANASANASATEZAZASATHEDASANANA " ((cut to Sailor #2 looking at the shot trying to follow the words, gazing past shot)) " SHOTDADASANANASAZATEDADA "

Sailor #2:((shaking his head)) "No, I don't get it." ((looks past the shot)) "Look you just need to slow down." ((motioning with his hands while Steven can still be heard)) " - and SHONZTDA " ((sounding out each letter spoken))((cut to Steven, from the foot of the bed, still rolled over on his right side, unstable from his experiences. His sobs and words are now incoherent to the viewer, only AHSAY repeating, which sounds like AHAHAHAH and definitely not laughter.)) "Look at what you're saying and SAY ((sounds like AOFZ )) what you're trying to SAYMAZZA " ((sounds like say without Z ))

Steven:((reacting)) " DOSTDANASADA " ((sounds like AHAHAHAH )) " SADAFASANANA " ((cut to Sailor looking towards the left of shot towards Steven off camera, with confusion. Sailor #2 is not in the shot. He attempts to understand what Steven is saying)) " DOFSANASAYZASAYZAYZANAWANASAYZANAAZANAASANAAASANASANAASADADASA ."

Sailor:((erupts)) "Quick fucking saying things! We can't even figure out what the fuck you're talking about!" ((pauses, as Steven continues to sob)) "God damn it! Fuck!"

Steven:((voice)) " GOSTDANAFANASANAFASASAZATEZASAZAZASAKEZA "

Sailor #2:((voice)) "Look just tell me right here - " ((Sailor reacts, and turns about to the right of the shot and faces towards off camera towards the Man in Red Jumpsuit)) " - how is this working for us?" ((cut to facing Sailor #2 center, Jason to his immediate right, Sailor to his immediate left, and Georgia Sailor closest to the left of the frame beside Jason, all leaning in towards the shot, Sailor #2 speaking past the shot determined and focused, the others as well))

Man in Red Jumpsuit:((voice)) " BOSTDANAFASANASA " ((the four look disheartened but only slightly deterred)) " SANANASAYZASATEZAZA "

Sailor #2: "It's no use I can't figure out what he's saying. It's something in Ukrainian or something, and I can't figure out the language."

Sailor:((frustrated)) "How come this wasn't a problem before? Why did we HAVENGLISHHTOAA ? How the fuck do we get english off our names when we're from American and ENGLISH is our main language? HOWTHEFK ? ((the four don't seem to realize what is happening to their words, and continue to speak without interpreting such))

Jason: " WEDONTEVNHVENGLISSH what does that even mean? It's like we're from another country or something? How is that possible?"

Sailor #2: "I can figure out some parts OK ? Like this guy says AOFZ that means WERRBAKIIAANTTIME , which is BADBCUZZTHTZBOFZANDDDWECANTDOTHAT . That means we're from a BOATTTHATTIZNTENGLLISSHNEEMOAAREEEE ." ((grimacing)) "Fuck I just hate this shit." ((cut to close up of Sailor #2 grimacing)) "How the fuck am I supposed to figure this shit out when we all keep changing all the time, and we're not even in the same place in a second? I can't even move a muscle without something changing around me. I can't MOVVEWITTHOWTTTSUUUMTHINGGOIIINNGRRNNG ."

Sailor:((voice)) " WELLWATEVVRITIZZZWEENEDDTTTTOOOOLEAAV ." ((Sailor #2 looks towards the right of shot)) " THRZZNOSTOOPINGTHSPRBLLM ." ((cut to Sailor close up facing to the left of the shot addressing those to the left of the shot)) " IFWEEDONTGETOWOTTWEWWEELGETSTTTUKTHEOTHRRRRGIIIIZZZDDIIDDDDDDDDD . WECCANNTGETSTKKKLIIIKKKKKKKKKEETYYTHTHYYDDDDDDDEEEEEEEEELOONGGGGANDAAAAAGGGAIIINNNNNNNNN ." ((as he speaks, he begins to change in shape, his figure expanding outwards horizontally, and slightly vertically, as do the other sailors))

Sailor #2:((voice)) " OOOOHHHHNOOOONOOOTAGAAAAAAAIINN !! " ((Sailor looks in pain, writhing as he and the other four can be heard groaning))((cut to facing the four all of them elongated outwards, stretched while Man in Red Jumpsuit, back to shot, retains his shape and form, though he begins to turn the color BLUUUU (( red and blue alternating in colors)) as Jason, Georgia Sailor, Sailor #2, and Sailor begin to painfully stretch into a GREEN (( blue )) horizontal line that slides upwards and out of the shot towards the ceiling, from the base up, and the Man in Red Jumpsuit and the ROOM ((their presence in the room)) with them. Steven continues to sob uncontrollably in the foreground on his right side, but is attentive to their departure, and screams louder than before. Two women dressed in white dresses and white nylons and shoes, nurses, hurry into the shot as though the others weren't even there following the sound of a door breaching. Steven continues to writhe even with their arrival, as two men dressed in white shirts and slacks with black shoes emerge from behind the shot as well. Their backs are to the shot, and the two men walk one on either side quickly to hold Steven down, as one of the nurses, closest to the left side, holds a hypodermic needle in the air with a small bottle, that holds clear liquid within, drawing the liquid into the syringe by pulling the plunger out and downward towards the floor. The syringe is roughly four inches long, and Steven continues to scream, though his words are no longer audible in English.))

Steven:((sounds like A repeating)) " AHHHHSANASAAOFZAZASANASA . " ((breathes in deep)) " BAASANANASANASA " ((sobbing as the men in white hold him down, as the nurse with the syringe removes the bottle from the needle's tip, and draws it down towards Steven)) " AHSANASAZANANA????!!!!!!!!! " ((cut to black, and holds for three seconds))

((cut to a small room, where a man is seated. He has blonde hair, green eyes, slight scruff, and is 20 - 30 years old. He wears a black suit with a black tie, and a bluish white shirt. The room behind him is GRAY (( bluered )) and the shot faces skew his left side, facing towards the left of the frame. He addresses the left of the shot))

Blonde Man:((slightly apprehensive)) "So what did you see?" ((the shot slides to the left of shot, to reveal Steven, aged to roughly 67 years old, with scruff, white and gray hair, his eyes now lighter, as he sits in a chair, facing towards the right of the shot, his gaze elsewhere. He looks disheveled and disheartened))

Steven:((shaking slightly, not making eye contact with the man)) "Nothing." ((sniffs once. His mouth seems to be missing teeth from trauma, and his speech shows such, like he has fended off abuse during his incarceration. He also looks impatient with the man, and the idea of questions))

Blonde Man:((voice)) "Are you certain you didn't see anything?" ((Steven reacts slightly, shakily, continuing to look to the left of the shot)) "Like anything strange. Anything unusual? Something I can talk to the guy about?" ((Steven shaking his head, frustrated)) "He's not gonna take no for an answer. He asked for your name." ((Steven looks very unhappy and disgruntled)) "Fuckin' asked for your name." ((Steven turns towards the right of shot, a very unhappy and angry glare)) "Just say something, what did he say?"

Steven:((softly)) "Fuck you." ((he glares back to the left of the frame, now past the shot though somewhat at the shot. Blonde Man sighs)) "And fuck you." ((panting slightly))((cut to close up of the smiling face of a brown haired man, hair down to the neck and beard, with blue eyes, the face upon the body of a younger man, staring past the shot towards Steven mischievously. Steven screams loudly)) " FUCKYYYYOOOOUUUU ." ((almost begins to sob, as the face doesn't react, or the man at all)) " FUCKYYYYOOOOU " ((the shot slides to the left to reveal Blonde Man looking towards the right of the shot, perplexed, as Steven reacts angrily))

((cut to Blonde Man's P.O.V. revealing the room is the color BLU (( gray )) and he is seated at a small desk, the color WHITTE (( bluegreen )) with a BROWNN (( blue )) floor broken into small block tiles, horizontal. He sees a BLUEEEELYNE (( a red straight YELO ((( green ))) line to the left of the shot, vertical and along from the floor to the ceiling. Steven continues to bellow))

Steven:((voice)) " FUKKKYYYYOOOOU " ((the P.O.V. shifts facing across the desk revealing once where Steven sat is a YELLOLYNE (( green and BLU ((( yellow ))) line that also stretches from the floor to the ceiling, that is pulsing up and down with the sound of Steven's voice. There is a sigh from the Blonde Man once more.))

((cut to facing the Blonde man who is wearing the same blue shirt, no tie, and has a set of black glasses over his eyes, to block out any source of light completely. He takes them off, clenches his eyes for a moment, and then looks down. The room is a small WHITE (( blue )) room behind him, as he looks downwards slightly as the shot faces him. A woman's voice, roughly 29 years old and from Kentucky speaks))

29 year old woman:((voice)) "What did he say?" ((he looks up briefly, then looks down, shaking his hand))

Blonde Man:((shaking head)) "Nothing."

((cut to Blonde Man P.O.V. looking down at a piece of paper, with the police sheet of Steven Harston below the diagram of the device, the long vertical shaft and several horizontal tubes protruding from its base. The table top is BLUUUUUUUUUU (( silver )) metal. There is a sheet of paper, not formatted, that he begins to write upon. He is left handed, and the ink is black.))

((cut to close up of his handwriting, quick handwriting with some cursive. The sound of the pen, black ink speaks, as he begins to write the words Steven Harston, and sounds just like A repeating for those who have ever A 'd ))

Pen: " SASANANANASANASASAZANASA " ((cut to a picture of Steven Harston, holding up a placard in the year 1975 where he was booked for assault and battery, his face damaged with a black left eye)) " GANASANANASASASAZANANANASASANA " ((cut to close up of the words being written by Blonde Man, ' apprehensive ' and 'nervous' being written, beneath a brief description of Steven Harston aged)) " SASANANANASANASAZOTDADASASANANASANANANA " ((other words being written, 'cold', 'elusive', 'outraged', 'exuberant in anger' and 'jealous of anger of me'))((cut to close up of the vertical tube the schematic of white paper in black ink, scaled down from the original blueprints and definitely a copy of the originals)) " GOSSSASANSASAZANANASOTDADA " ((cut to close up of Blonde Man's writing, ad the very end of the notation reading ' will not talk to strangers, not open to suggestion, and will always be angry at a person I can't see. I will not actually see him because I cannot see his face, and I cannot make his face out. I will not make his face out because of only seeing yellow lines instead. I will try again next week. The words he wrote, are not the same that the Pen speaks)) " SADADASANOOTDADASANANANASARBAZAZASARBARDASASANASANANASARDADASANANASADA ." ((cut to the base of the shot and the page, as Blonde Man's hand obscures the last statement he writes, the Pen still speaking)) " SASANANASAZOTDADA " ((he pulls his hand away from the paper, revealing his final words on the page as July 12 2012 .))

((cut to black))

