

---

The Landlord

By Brett Droege

Brett Droege

Text copyright © 2012 Brett Droege All Rights

Reserved

Edited by Tiffany Barrett

The characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to real persons, living or dead is coincidental and not intended by the author.

---

# Contents

Chapter 1 4

Chapter 2 16

Chapter 3 24

Chapter 4 33

Chapter 5 46

Chapter 6 54

Chapter 7 62

Chapter 8 70

Chapter 9 87

Chapter 10 98

Chapter 11 109

Chapter 12 118

Acknowledgments 123

---

# Chapter 1

In each of us there are demons, some less than others. Some can control it, some can't. We all have the two separate sides to ourselves. What and who we are and how we want society to see us. Is there a way to tell the exact moment when a seemingly fine person will snap?

My name is Damien Turner. I have been on the force for 7 years now. I have been working on this case from the beginning and still it makes absolutely no sense to me how someone could do the things this man has done.

The studies have shown that there is no indication of any mental illness in the patient. All of this has been done on his own free will. You see a lot in this job. I've interrogated my fair share of bad men. There have been very few that have given me the chills.

"You still can't understand what is wrong with this

guy huh?? He's a fucking nut job that needs to be put down like the animal he is. Its people like this that work their way through the system and eventually get out and kill again. I'd put the mother fucker on his knees and bury a bullet right between his eyes if I could."

That's my partner, Jack Harrington. Late twenties, hot headed and new to this unit. He takes one last drag of his cigarette throws it on the ground, and steps on it. I can see it in his face. He is losing his patience with the suspect.

"We need the truth. We need him to talk. This one isn't going to slip through the system. We just need his confession and motive. Let's go in." Harrington says as he looks back at me.

If I didn't work with the guy I wouldn't even think by looking at him he was a detective. His arms are covered in tattoos and his jaw is covered in stubble.

I looked over to the interrogation room. The man inside cuffed to the table just sat there staring blankly at the ceiling in front of him totally emotionless. The dim light from above was casting a slight shadow over his face. To be honest the guy scares the hell out of me. We walked in and I looked

over at Harrington. I could tell he is trying to calm himself down before we enter. We opened the door and sat down. The man does not stop staring; he just gets this small crooked smile on his face.

"We know what you did. You know what you did. This quiet game isn't going to get you anywhere. Why don't you just start from the beginning? Walk us through what happened and why you did what you did." My words seemed to fall on deaf ears. The man had no reaction at all and continued to gaze onward.

Harrington leaned over and whispered to me. "Damien I can't do this much longer. It has been too long. This piece of shit hasn't given us anything, I'm about to crack." I can see in his eyes that he isn't comfortable being in the same room as this man.

I gave him a nod. Harrington smiled at the man, stood up and closed the blinds in the room as I turn off the recorder. Still, no reaction from the man chained to the chair in front of us. We all knew what was coming.

"All right Anthony you've had your chance to talk and I'm done with your fucking games."

Harrington moved closer to the man's face, "You talk now or I make you talk."

The man's eyes locked onto Harrington. That stare, Anthony just looked as if he was staring right into his soul. Harrington pulled back his fist and buried it into Anthony's stomach. I know this has to hurt. I flinched a little when I heard the sickening thump. The man didn't even flinch or make a single sound; he just stared directly into his eyes and smiled. Harrington pulled his fist back 3 more times. He connected with his stomach once then twice square in the jaw. Still, the man had no reaction. A small trickle of blood ran down Anthony's lip.

"Enough!" I yelled as I got up and grabbed Harrington's fist. "We're not getting anywhere with this."

"I'll make this Trash talk Damien, I just need more time! He's got to feel this. He has to!" I could hear the despair in his voice.

Harrington grabbed the man by the hair, cranked his head back and put his other hand around his throat.

"TALK YOU MOTHER FUCKER! Tell us where the other fucking girl is!!"

Anthony still sat there emotionless still staring at Harrington. He began to wheeze and cough a bit. Harrington let go of Anthony's neck. The man gasped for breath but his face remained unchanged. It was almost like he enjoyed the pain. Harrington turned around and stormed out of the room.

Harrington lit up a cigarette and punched the door. I heard the sound of bone colliding with metal. I stood up and took another look at Anthony. He will be fine, just roughed up a little bit. I left the room to have a talk with Harrington.

"She has to be dead man, there's no fucking way. It's been 3 months now, I don't know how anyone could survive being captive that long."

His hands shook as he took another drag from his cigarette.

The last thing Anthony said before he began his silent game was that there is another girl we will never find without him. He didn't give any names, motives, nothing. It was as if he was using another human life as collateral.

I went back into the room to check on Anthony. His mouth was bleeding pretty badly now. He still had no emotion at all. His face and eyes were totally

void.

What I didn't understand was how could someone that had been so successful end up in this position. I picked the file back up off the desk and began reading it again to see if there was anything that I could have possibly missed.

Anthony M. Smith was just another normal Joe. He had a decent paying job in data entry for an insurance company and seemed to enjoy it.

He was very close with his family and his wife. They never had kids and they took more vacations than most people would ever be able to afford. Four years ago in 2008 he had won the lottery. He had won a 23 million dollar top prize, to be exact. He quit his job and bought twelve nice houses in his home town of Omaha, Nebraska. He rented them out as an investment with his winnings to ensure financial security for the future.

Everyone that knew him prior to the incidents said he was an all-around nice guy who loved to help people out especially after winning the lottery. His friends and family thought that he was just being generous with his fortune when he had four new tenants move into three of his houses and did not

charge rent. Back in March of 2010 he said he was giving a little break to those who needed it more than he did.

I heard the sound of chains shifting in front of me and looked up. Anthony's gaze shifted from the ceiling towards me and pierced me, square in the eyes. He crept forward and began to talk.

"Do you want to know what happened?" Anthony spoke for the first time in months. "I'll tell you."

He smiled and his eyes locked into mine. I called Harrington to come back in.

Harrington threw his cigarette to the ground and stepped on it as he walked in. The whole room smelled of stale smoke. I hated being in there for extended periods of time. I just wanted this to be done so we could close the case and put Anthony away for good.

"I told you I just needed more time Damien." Harrington smiled at me as he made a fist again.

"You hit like a bitch Jack." Anthony says with a smile as he looked over to Harrington.

"So, do you want to know what made me do the things that I've done? Do you really want to know

what makes a man take a human life?"

He laughed. He was proud of what he had done. I turned the voice recorder back on as he started to talk.

"When you have everything you could ever want, you get bored. You think, what else is there to gain in this life? Those women, I picked them out myself. I knew they wouldn't turn down my generous offer. I gave them something they wanted and they gave me something that money couldn't buy, satisfaction.

Anthony turned his head in my direction.

"Damien, have you ever played God? It was my choice if they lived or died. They lived in my houses and I had the power. I chose who lived and who died. I was their God."

"YOU ARE NO FUCKING GOD!" Harrington yelled back. "You are scum. You are a god damn cockroach and you will die for what you've done. When you are hooked into the electric chair I WILL be there to watch you take your last breath!"

"Harrington, don't give in to him. We need this."

Anthony took a deep breath and began. "The first girl I started to become obsessed with was so beautiful. She had been burned by society so many

times. She had no friends, no significant other, and her family disowned her. To a normal person, she seemed so empty, but I saw something in this one. I needed her.

Beth was only 23 at the time. I saved her. I saved her from her addiction and I saved her from her pain." Anthony said it was as if he believed that he was actually doing something good in this girl's life.

"No, you fucking murdered her. You didn't save shit." Harrison snapped back.

Anthony answers back. "Yes. I took her life. I let her adjust to her new life as my pet, in my cage. I left her alone for a good two months. She was a heavy sleeper. I would go to the house at 2:45 every night. I would just watch her, study her. There were several times I would use my key to let myself in the back door and stand in her bedroom doorway. I wondered what she was dreaming about."

"What would possess you to go to those extremes Anthony?" I asked. I couldn't shake this uneasy feeling that swept through my whole body. I could only image how it would feel to wake up and there would just be someone standing there, watching and

waiting.

Anthony's left eye started to twitch as he continued. "Like I have already told you Damien, Beth was my pet, she was mine. I couldn't get her out of my head. I needed to see her, to smell her. Her scent was just so pure, so innocent. This lasted a good three months. She started to go out more often in August. She began seeing this prick, Kevin. I wasn't going to let him take her from me. She was mine."

Disturbed by his answer, I asked, "So what are you saying? It was obsession and jealousy that drove you over the edge?" I already knew the answer to the question, but I needed to hear those words come from the monsters mouth, himself.

"Neither. She was mine and I was just protecting my property. Kevin was the first present that I left you to find, but the gift was never received, was it?"

Anthony smirks as he continues. "He made it too easy. The pieces were already there, I just sped up the process. He was an alcoholic, he liked his pills; I just waited for the right time. I watched them fight one night. I followed him back to his house, it was late. He was pissed I could tell. He took shots of his

cheap Canadian Springs, the kid had no class, couldn't even afford good whiskey."

Anthony leaned back. His face was in the shadow now. "I just waited. He had been going in and out of consciousness. He got up and stumbled to his bathroom and I knew this was my chance. He didn't bother locking his door. I just walked in to his living room and opened up the bottles of pills he had sitting on the table, Xanax and Ambien I believe it was."

Anthony's face was emotionless as he took a deep breath. "I put a handful of them in what was left of his piss whiskey. Then I went back out to watch what I had done. He was in his bathroom for a good twenty minutes before he came out. He had tears in his eyes and his fists were cut up, like he had been punching something."

Anthony let out a laugh and his eyes lit up. "He stumbled back to his couch and downed the rest of his bottle. It wasn't long before he layed his head down on the couch."

I can't believe we overlooked this, Kevin Abrams, suicide from a drug and alcohol overdose. It's all in the report. We knew that Kevin and Beth Sanders

were together. She had admitted in the report to his substance abuse problems and that they were fighting. She took the blame for what this monster did to him.

Anthony interrupted my thought process and continued. "I watched him start to wheeze. He started coughing and foaming at the mouth. His chest started to slow. He began having convulsions and his eyes rolled back in his head."

Anthony's eyes roll up mockingly. "Then, just like that, it was done. Beth was mine again. No more distractions.

I went back to her house. She was asleep with a bottle of Bacardi on her nightstand. I let myself in the back door once again, stood there for about ten minutes and just watched her breathe. I walked in, stood beside her and lightly brushed my hand down her soft face and neck. She moaned a little and rolled over. Then, I left the house, my deed was done."

# Chapter 2

Sitting in a room with what once was an ordinary man who turned into this... monster, is not an easy thing for any man. He beams with pride over what he has done. Harrington lit up another cigarette and began to ask questions.

"So you pulled the wool over our eyes with Kevin. You got what you wanted. Why make Beth suffer then kill her?" Harrington says in a stern voice.

"I wouldn't call it suffering Jack. I gave Beth more than anyone in this world ever had. I took that plague out of her life before it could hurt her even more."

"Oh, so now you think you're the fucking good guy!?" Harrison snapped back.

Anthony learned forward, paused then his eyes pierced Harrington's. "There is no good, there is no evil. You want to look at life as if it was all black and white. We all live in grey even you Mr. Harrington. Over the next couple of weeks, I watched her. I noticed an increase in her drinking. Guilt I'm sure, after all, she did blame herself for my handy work. At this point, I realized I needed to tighten my leash on my pet, her beauty began to fade."

I interrupted him. "In other words you started to lose interest so you killed her."

Anthony directed his stare to me. "No Damien, I never lost interest. I can remember her last day so well, it was a Tuesday. There was just a sliver of moon and smelled of rain. It stormed that night for her. I let myself in the back door yet again. She was in her living room watching a movie by herself. It was right around 11:30 at night, she only had one little lamp on."

Anthony disappeared into the shadow again. "She didn't see me walk up behind the couch. I knew this was time to say goodbye to her. I quietly inched

my way towards her. With each step my heart started to beat faster and faster. This is the moment I knew I was more than a man. I felt empowered. I reached my arms out and lunged towards her, wrapping my arms around her neck."

Anthony raised his arms quickly reliving his actions. His eyes lit up as he continued.

"She started to struggle. I could feel the scream trying to escape her throat as I clenched my arms tighter. I could feel her body going limp in my arms. She couldn't scream. I didn't want her to, not yet. When she went limp, I let her fall to the floor like a rag doll."

Anthony rested his arms back in his lap. "I grabbed some duct tape out of the kitchen drawer and bound her body up. For some reason, I didn't see her as my pet anymore, not even as another human being. I just saw her as a piece of meat."

For a brief moment he had a disgusted look on his face. "I went back out the door and pulled my car through the alley and drug her lifeless body out and threw her in the trunk. We drove around for an hour until I found the perfect place. I drove into the corn-field for a good quarter mile and turned my headlights off. It was so quiet. I opened the trunk.

She was awake now, crying. She looked up at me and I just stared into her eyes."

Harrington shouted at Anthony. "Why the fuck did you kill her? You know you should have stopped yourself. You should have turned yourself in and got help."

I could tell he didn't want to hear what was next. Hell, I didn't either. But, we needed a full confession. We had to get this guy for everything. It's the least we could do for the families, the victims, for us.

Anthony is unbothered by the interruption and continues to gloat. "I took her out of the trunk and put her on the soft dirt. This was going to be her new home. At this moment, I felt her fear. It was so intoxicating. I then remembered why my infatuation with her started. I felt that beauty again. Her black hair was picking up the sliver of light from the night as it flowed in the breeze."

He appeared out of the shadow like he wanted us to see the excitement on his face. "I slowly pulled down her pants and felt her soft skin. It felt so good, I couldn't stop myself. Her eyes shot open as she was startled back into consciousness. She tried

to scream, but nothing would come out. I entered her." He says with a sickening smile

"After I had my way with her, I looked her in the eyes once more. I could see the fear and the hate. We both knew what was next." Anthony looks to Harrington; he can tell that he is getting to him. Harrington was shaking. He wanted to rip this man apart limb by limb.

"I went back to the car and grabbed my buck knife then walked slowly back to Beth. She struggled and attempted to shake her arms loose." Anthony closed his eyes and took another deep breath.

The chains around his arms clanked against the chair as he raised both his arms up reenacting how he held the knife.

He continued his confession. "I slowly crouched down next to her, the knife reflecting the dim moonlight."

His hands went back down. "I lifted up her shirt and rested the tip of the blade above her belly button. The tip of my blade fit right into the ring she had down there. With one quick jerk it tore out."

Anthony's hands shot up in the same motion he

had done to her. "The laceration immediately started bleeding. I then looked into her eyes one last time."

Anthony opened his eyes again and smiled. That sick smile let us know he loved every second of it.

Anthony's facial features tensed up. "I put just a little pressure at first, waiting for her skin to give in. Then, I hear the pop of her skin opening up. As I slowly raked the knife further up her belly she struggled, she knew she was going to die."

Anthony's body jolted and he lifted his head one more time and let out a blood curdling scream. I looked to Harrington. His face had a mild green tint to it. He didn't want to hear what was next. Hell, I didn't either.

Anthony took another breath and looked directly at Harrington "The incision started to drain blood down both sides of her throbbing torso. Steam started to rise out of the wound like it was her very soul escaping into the cool night air. I drug the knife up her stomach until it hit bone. Her eyes were wide open. She was watching, screaming in disbelief. I decided to give her a better view. I cut the duct tape so she could move. I wanted to see the very

moment that she passed on."

Anthony's eyes met with mine. "Her entrails were falling out as she tried to get up. She just grabbed them, trying to hold them in. She was trying to hold on to life, then her eyes just went blank. She fell to the ground with a thud into a pool of her own blood. She knew it was over."

Again I looked into the eyes of the killer and asked, "So, you just left her there?" I knew the answer.

"Yes. It was out in the middle of nowhere, in a cornfield. Who would find her?" He laughs.

This man just has to be sick in the head. Why couldn't they find any psychological illness? Something just didn't add up.

"I drove back home and cleaned the mud off my shoes and washed the blood from my hands and clothes. As I layed down, I wondered to myself how my other pets were doing."

Anthony's eyes traced back up to the ceiling and he went silent.

"Are you going to tell us about the others?" I tried asking him but I got no response. He was playing

his quiet game again. Why now? He was giving us all the information and getting plenty of enjoyment out of his story.

Harrington jumped out of his chair and grabbed Anthony by the throat again. "Keep talking you mother fucker!"

Anthony's expression didn't change, he just stared up. Harrington cocked back his fist again and landed a bone crushing blow to Anthony's jaw. He immediately spewed out a small steam of blood.

"He's done man, let's call it a day." Harrington says breathing heavily.

I called in the guards to take the man back to his cell. Harrington lit up another cigarette and inhaled deeply.

"Damien we need this." He says, I could tell how concerned he was.

I'm not happy that we have to wait another day to put Anthony away for good. I gave Harrington a reassuring look that gave a false sense of control over the situation. "I know, but we need sleep. We have a partial confession now. You know as well as I do that he isn't going to talk any more today. He wants us to wait. It's his game and we're just playing

it. Well, we are at least finally making progress."

Harrington stepped out of the dimly lit room and headed home. I knew exactly what he would be doing tonight. He will get home, grab a bottle of Jack Daniels and drown his frustrations. He doesn't do well with being alone with his thoughts.

I left the basement, went up the stairs to my office on the third floor. My office is cluttered with paperwork from the case. I walked over to the stack of papers on my desk and took one final look over everything.

I have been staying at the office the last couple of days. I just couldn't get the case off my mind. I moved the papers over so I had a place to lay my head and tried to clear my mind.

# Chapter 3

"Damien. Damien?" Startled, I lifted my head up off the desk, guess I did get some sleep. Then, I heard it again, "Damien?" The voice seemed so close but no one was in the room with me. I looked over at the clock. It's 1:13AM. There's no way anyone would be in here this late.

"Hello?" I awkwardly called out, like I was expecting to hear someone reply. I heard nothing and walked over to the light switch by my desk.

"Damien?" The female voice asks again.

I felt my heart beating in my throat as I reached out trying to find the light switch. "Who's there?" I squinted as my eyes started to adjust to the room lighting up. Just as I thought, there was no one in the room with me. I could feel the sweat running down my forehead. Am I going mad?

As my eyes scanned the room I noticed a shadow

passing in front of my office door. My eyes had to have been playing tricks on me. For a second, I swore there was someone there.

I grabbed my gun and flashlight then ran out to the hallway. All I could hear was my own heavy breathing and footsteps. What the hell could make a shadow like that? I could have sworn it was at least five foot tall.

I continued to search the room. My heart finally started to slow down. It had to be the lack of sleep. Now, I'm positive that what I thought I was seeing wasn't real.

I felt a chill go down my whole body that felt like it rested in my spine. I turned around and there it was. I have never seen anything in my life that has horrified me in the way this did. There she was, standing right in front of me. It was Beth, but only for a second. I blinked my eyes and she was gone.

I dropped my flashlight and ran. I didn't care where I ended up I just had to get out of there. She was just standing there. Her face was a pale grey, eyes sunken into her skull. Her skin was pasty white, except for the huge cut in her stomach. I couldn't even see her legs, it seemed like they were

transparent, I could see right through them. She was just hovering over a puddle of blood.

I heard the voice again.

"Damien."

It was following me. I ran down the stairs and took my first right. Shit, the door was locked. I unlocked it and it wouldn't open. I felt like I was going to have a heart attack. Every hair on my body was on end. Why was it so damn cold in here now?

"Damien. It wasn't him."

Those were the last words I expected to hear. I backed up from the door and looked down the dark hallway. Nothing was there. This case is really getting to me.

I hear a creak from the door. As I turned around it blasted open like someone kicked it in. I panicked and ran outside. This is the last place I want to be right now. As I come back to my senses, I realized, I'm not outside of the agency.

For a moment, my eyes and head just felt like static. I could feel every beat of my heart pounding in my chest. I heard the female voice once more, but I couldn't make out what she was saying.

My vision slowly came back to me and my eyes began to focus. I realized that I'm in the middle of a cornfield. This is impossible, there's no way this can be real. I heard a scream in the distance.

I drew my gun again and ran through the field towards the screaming. The corn cut into my skin like hundreds of paper cuts all over my arms and face. I was running faster than I thought was humanly possible.

What is this? Where the hell am I? My heart is nearly pounding out of my chest and all the sudden everything feels like its slowing down. I couldn't even feel my legs move anymore. I felt a sharp pain in my right leg and I fell to the ground. I tripped over the irrigation pipe. Then I saw her again. Her skin was still pasty white and her eyes stared directly at me.

"Damien, it wasn't his fault." Her mouth didn't move. The words just seemed like they were in my head.

She inched closer to me with her arm extended. I couldn't move, the only thing that I could do was look into her eyes. They were so blank and cold. I don't know what came over me but I started to

reach back out. The fear was gone.

The farther I reached out, the colder my arm turned. The hairs on my arm stood on end. Then, she touched me. It felt like a burst of cold electricity shooting through my bones.

Then just like that, she was gone. I heard the screaming again and looked in the direction it came from. I saw Anthony standing over a girl in the field. I still couldn't move my legs so I started pulling myself through the dirt. "Anthony, Stop! You don't have to do this!" I yelled to him.

The man didn't react at all. He just stood there in the dark with the knife.

I drew my gun, "Put the knife down and get on the ground or I will shoot!" I gave him a last warning as I line the bead on the barrel up to his skull.

Something seemed different from what he told us earlier. He is just staring into space. I looked at Beth wrapped up in duct tape on the ground. She looked over at me. I saw the fear in her eyes.

"Drop the knife and get on your fucking knees Anthony!" I let out one last warning that seemed to go unheard.

I took two shots at the man standing above Beth.

The sparks from the barrel lit up the night for just a second and made my ears ring.

I was finally able to get up from the ground and went running to her aid. I saw the man crouch down to his knees. How could I have missed? Bam, bam; I fired two more shots into the man. He still positioned the knife above her belly button. Bam, bam, bam; I put three more bullets in him.

Then I heard the scream and the sickening pop of her skin tearing, the air from inside her escaping. I jump at Anthony to take him down to the ground and to my surprise I ended up face down on the ground.

My body felt so clumsy and I couldn't move the way I wanted to. I repositioned myself and aimed my gun once more.

I looked around me. There was no one else in the field. What the hell just happened to me? I saw the girl die. I still can't move nearly as fast as I know I should be able to.

My head started to ring and I heard it again. "Damien, it wasn't him." The words were buzzing around in my brain.

I felt like I was going into shock. "What the fuck is

going on here?" I screamed out.

All I could see was the blackness surrounding me. The smell of blood was in the air now. My body started to shake uncontrollably, my heart rushing blood through my veins faster and faster.

My head started to spin and my vision started to blur. I tried to run. I didn't care where I ended up; I just had to get out of this place. My lungs felt like they had stopped working. I couldn't get air. Everything went black and I fell to the ground.

I screamed as my head shot up. "Where are you, what the fuck is going on?"

It took me a minute to realize that I'm still at my desk. That feeling of impending doom starts to fade as I realize I was just dreaming. Or, at least that's what I wanted myself to believe. My head was spinning. I went over and turned the light on and looked at the clock on the wall. Its 1:13 am.

Shocked, I thought to myself "What the hell, that's the same time I woke up in the dream," as I searched my pocket for my phone.

I dialed Harrington, hoping he would answer. He hasn't slept much since his wife died.

"Hello?" Harrington answers.

"I had a very disturbing dream. I saw Beth and Anthony. Just needed to talk to someone for a minute and clear my head." I explained to him what happened to me.

"Yeah man, I told you. We've got to take this guy down hard for everything he has done so we can all sleep at night." I can tell he had been drinking. His speech was a little slurred. "Every time I think about what he did to those girls, all I can think of is Sheryl." His voice softened.

Jack had a hard time dealing with his wife's death. It's what ultimately drove him to become a cop. They were walking home from a bar one night when a man came out from an alley and told them to give him their money. Jack, of course, snapped back at the man. He didn't see that he had a gun stuffed into his jacket pocket. The man pulled the gun.

Sheryl screamed, the man reacted by putting a bullet in the lower left side of her chest. Jack jumped on the man and started throwing punches. He beat him to within an inch of his life, but he was too late. After the attacker was out cold, he ran back to Sheryl.

"It's not your fault Jack, you did everything you could." Sheryl said. Tears ran down her cheek. "I love you Jack. I always have and always will."

Jack looked under her shirt at the wound. She was bleeding out. He was losing her.

"Sheryl, I swear to you that mother fucker will get what's coming to him." That was the last thing she heard as she slipped away in his arms.

The attacker was arrested but when the case went to trial, he walked. He had a damn good defense attorney and found he was a recovering addict using bath salts. He got away with pleading insanity. He was institutionalized for five years then they let him walk, saying he had made a full recovery.

"I'm sorry." Those were the only words I could think to say. I couldn't imagine the pain he felt losing someone he loved so much. "We will get him. Trust me. There is no way Anthony will get through the system, he's going down." I reassured him.

Harrington let out a sigh. "By the way man, 1:13am was around the time Anthony killed Beth Sanders. It's pretty fucked up if you ask me. But hey man, I can barely keep my eyes open. I'll see you tomorrow; I've got to go pass out."

I still couldn't shake what had happened, but I too, needed to sleep. We had a long day ahead of us tomorrow and hopefully Anthony would finish his confession so we could put this all to rest.

# Chapter 4

Its 9:00 in the morning and I'm headed to the interrogation room. Harrington was already there waiting for me.

"You finally get to sleep or you have more ghost adventures?" He laughs "Just fucking with you man. Ok so new day, new attitude."

I could still smell alcohol on his breath as he was talking to me.

"Slept like shit, but hey, this will all hopefully be over soon and I can go home." I replied. We stepped into the interrogation room. The mood always changed when we entered that room. Maybe it's the dim lighting, or the musty smell. I don't

know.

We sat there and waited for Anthony to be brought in. Harrington lit up a cigarette and inhaled deeply.

"God, I hope this is the last day of this shit. Sadly, I'll bet you that he plays his damn silent game." He says. His mood was already changing.

There was a knock on the metal door and the guards escorted Anthony to his seat in front of us. Harrington blew a big cloud of smoke in Anthony's face as he walked by. The guards sit him in his chair and start to lock his shackles to the chair and floor.

He sat there staring at the ceiling like usual. We already knew how today was going to be. He will sit there like this all day, Harrington will throw punches, he won't talk and then the guards will take him back to his cell. He knows how to play this game.

Anthony gasped for air and screams. "It wasn't me! I didn't do it!" He snaps back to reality for the first time. His eyes changed. They weren't the usual blank, cold, dead eyes of a killer, they looked hurt.

"Bullshit! Don't even think about pulling your shit!" Harrington snapped back and stood up.

Then just like that, back to the usual dead eyes. The eyes of a man who had taken lives, he seemed to get pleasure from doing so.

Anthony laughed. "No games today Jack, I hope you both slept well." He grins.

I begin questioning him. "Ok, you've confessed about killing Beth Sanders, now we need the others."

Anthony's expression tightens in his face when he turned to me and stated "I lied" as he stares me down.

"What the hell do you mean you lied!?" Harrington shoots back. "You fucking killed her, we have it on tape!"

Anthony smiled as he looked at Harrington. "Yes Jack. I did kill her, but I lied. Her body stopped twitching at exactly 1:13PM that night. I got back in my car and drove. I was so overpowered by the intoxication of her fear and watching her energy drain from her body, I couldn't just go home and sleep, I went to go check on my other pets."

Anthony stares back to the ceiling. His left eye began twitching again.

"God damn we better not be losing him!"

Harrington yelled.

Anthony pulled against his shackles. "Oh Jack. If only you had seen Rachael, you would have loved it. I peered through her broken blind in her living room. This was the first time I had seen actions like this out of her. She was acting like some low grade street whore in front of her computer. I was surprisingly aroused by the situation. She was on her couch wearing barely anything. She was sitting there so seductively in her black bra, panties, and thigh highs. She was making provocative gestures at her webcam." Anthony paused for a moment and breathed deeply, as if he was fanaticizing about that mental image.

"I couldn't take my eyes off her. I was still absorbed by the thrill of the kill, then this? I realized that I still had my knife on me drenched with Beth's blood."

Anthony's hand was clenched into a fist. He continued. "It wasn't her time. I watched her for a good 10 minutes, got in my car and went home to clean up. Over the next couple of days, my only focus was her, I frequently made these checks." Anthony said with a grin.

"So, you killed these women as a sick sex act? Where was your wife this whole time?" I ask him.

Anthony fells silent again briefly and began speaking in a softer tone. "At this point, it didn't matter. It was all about Rachael.

The next night I went back around 9pm and looked through the blinds yet again. There she was. Just the same as she was the night before. Her body was just so perfect I couldn't wait to touch it." Anthony's head lowers as he looks to the floor.

"It wasn't me I swear!" he whispered. "God help me."

Hearing those words put me in complete shock. He was confessing to everything he had done with those bloodstained hands and was asking for forgiveness.

He snapped back up with those dull dead eyes again and laughs. "Would you rather have me beg in the end or just put me down like a dog, Damien?" Anthony is mocking us now.

I learned towards Harrington. "I need to talk to you outside for a minute." He nodded and followed me out the door.

"I'm starting to think this guy is schizophrenic.

You see how fast his moods swing today."

"For sure man, I'm seeing that too. Didn't they test him for that shit?"

"Well yes and no. They ran whatever tests they could on his head but he wouldn't talk to the psychiatrist. All he said was that everything would piece itself together in time."

The answers I'm seeking make me very uneasy. That has to be it. There is no other way that a normal man, who has made it in life could be this way. He had the money, the family and the wife.

We both heard Anthony yell from the other room. "I'm not finished with you two today." He actually sounded angry that we weren't in the room. We reentered the room and sat down.

Anthony began talking again as we sat down. "After watching Rachael I went over to another home, another pet. I had to be a little more cautious this time.

Ashley's husband Jake didn't sleep much and when he did he slept with one eye open. I knew he was dealing marijuana. I didn't care that it was happening on my property. His money was my money."

Harrington lit up another cigarette. "So you knew about him selling pot; that makes you an accessory to that as well. Keep it up Anthony, let's just go ahead and add that to the list of charges against you." He blew the smoke in Anthony's face again.

Anthony coughed and said "Don't worry Jack, I didn't allow it to happen for very long.

Ashley was out with her friends that Friday night. Jake was home alone. This was my chance to get him away from my property. It was about 8:45pm when I walked up to the doorway. Instead of my usual methods of checking on my pets, I knocked on the door knowing he would answer. I could hear him running around hiding, what I'm certain was drug paraphernalia, before he came to the door." Anthony paused again. "He said something like 'Hey man don't you need to like call first or something before you come over? I thought Ashley already sent the rent out.'"

Anthony grinned. "I told him no. That's not what I was there for. I told him I knew about his little game.

I could see how worried he was becoming. I found it quite humorous someone like him could get

worried so easily. I reached into my pocket and got hold of the cord I had, then waited for my moment to pounce. This was my favorite part of the game.

He turned to shove a pipe in a drawer on his table he was by, hoping I didn't see. As soon as his back was turned I lunged at him with the cord in hand.

He was mine from that moment on. I pulled both hands back tighter and I could see his breath escaping him. His breathing became slow and shallow. His whole face turned flush and then almost immediately, pale. I didn't care how this one died as long as it was clean."

I scratched my head and tried to piece this all together. We had a motive. We had a good idea of what went wrong with him. The only thing that wasn't adding up was his schizophrenic episodes. They only seemed to last just a few moments. It just didn't add up.

"I could feel his heartbeat from his neck and he was gasping, he continued swinging at me but we both knew I was in full control. His face turned a pale blue and I could feel his heart stop pounding. I killed him there. To be safe, I tied him up and threw him in the trunk. We drove the same drive Beth and I enjoyed just two nights before."

"Tell us where this field is. We need to find the remains so they can be buried like people not just disposed of like dogs." It almost sounded like I was making a bargain with the devil. Anthony just chuckled.

"You will have everything you want shortly. It was so dark that night. I was surprised I could even find my turn into the field. You will never find it without me detectives." Anthony knew he had control of this game.

"As I was saying, Jake and I went for his last drive. Finally through the darkness I could see the path that lead down the field. I dimmed my headlights and continued to the field. We drove about a quarter mile through the darkness until I found the opening in the corn where I had left Beth. I got out of the car to have another look at her."

Anthony's eyes lit back up. How could a man get so much enjoyment out of doing something so terrible?

"I could smell blood. Then, I saw what was left of her. It's funny how fast a human being can go from being a person to just a rotting pile of flesh.

Something had been feeding on her. The eyeball

that was still there was staring up like she was watching something tear into her face. I had never seen such a sight in a person. I reached in my pocket, grabbed my phone and took a picture."

"Sadly we have seen all your 'art'. It's disgusting." I told him.

"I hit the button to pop the trunk and walked back to pull Jake out, my feet sank slightly into the dirt as I walked to the rear of the car. It was a little bit colder tonight than it was when I brought Beth here. I picked up the lifeless body of what once was Jake Winters and carried him over to lay by Beth. I began to walk away, then started to think, what if Jake was still alive somehow?"

"So he could have been alive. And you just left him." Harrington says back to him.

"No. I had to make sure he was gone. I bent down beside the man and pressed my thumbs into his eye sockets. My fingers were turning red as I pushed in. I finally felt them give away, it was like crushing grapes."

Anthony's hands are mimicking the movement. I felt sick. Harrington had enough.

"You want to see how that fucking felt?"

Harrington asks as he slowly got out of his chair. He walked over to Anthony, then grabbed him by the head and jammed his thumbs into Anthony's eyeballs.

I blurted out "Jack what the hell do you think you are doing?" I had to stop this. I reached my arms under his armpits and rested my hands on his head. He couldn't move as I pulled him off of Anthony.

"Do you fucking like that? That's how it feels you bastard. That was somebodies son!" Harrington still tried to get at Anthony but I managed to keep him under control.

I yelled at him. "Calm the hell down before you lose your fucking job Jack! It's not worth it, let it go." Finally he snapped back and quit struggling.

"I'm sorry man, I'm really fucking sorry. Son of a bitch just struck a nerve that's all. I was just thinking what if Sheryl and I would have been able to have a son and this monster did that to him. I'm good. I'm back in the game man." He seemed to have calmed down so I let him go.

We had to take a breather. I put my hand on Jacks shoulder. "Let's get out of here for a few." He nods.

As I was heading for the door, Anthony called my

name.

"Damien. I'm innocent. It wasn't me. Beth even told you." He said in a quiet and weak voice.

"Excuse me?" He took me by surprise. "Beth is dead. She can't tell me anything."

How the hell did he know about my dream last night and why would he say he's innocent. He has giving a total confession the last two days. It has to be the schizophrenia. But still, how the hell would he know what I had experienced?

I turned back. Anthony's face turned stone cold, just as you would expect a killer to be. He just smiled at me. As he leaned back, his face slowly disappeared into the shadows.

I walked out of the room to get my head back on straight. There was so much going through my head at this point. There is no way in hell that what happened last night was real. It had to be a dream. But how did he know? The only one I've told was Harrington and he wouldn't say anything.

I met back up with Harrington who's sitting on the steps outside smoking again.

"You know those things will kill you," I said with a

smile trying to lighten the mood.

"Yeah probably, but everyone's got to go sometime might as well pick my poison." He smiles.

"So last night, I'm not sure what happened. I know it was a dream, but it felt so damn real. And it seemed like Anthony knew. He made a comment as I was leaving." I look up at the sky as I inhale the fresh air.

Jack looked at me with a serious face and said "He's just fucking with you man. He's got one of those 'look at me, I'm a famous serial killer' attitudes. You know damn well this shits all going to be a book and movie someday. Wonder who will play me." His expression changed and he smiled at me.

I let out an uncomfortable laugh. "Sadly, that's true. Millionaire turned serial killer; Putting Omaha, Nebraska on the map."

I start to prepare myself to go back in and look over to Harrington. "Let's do this. Two down two to go."

We walk back in and open the door to the interrogation room. We were met with that all too familiar musky odor. The atmosphere in the room

felt so much heavier than outside.

# Chapter 5

Harrington and I sat back down in the interrogation room. I turned the voice recorder back on and began to talk "Alright Anthony we have a confession, in detail, to you killing Beth Sanders and Jake Winters, as well as Kevin Abrams. We need the rest of the story."

It's my turn to take over his game. I put my hands in my lap and leaned forward and looked Anthony straight in the eyes and said "Let's just get this done and over with, I'm sick of seeing you. I'm sick of losing sleep over all this. The end starts right now." I said with confidence.

Anthony made eye contact with me now as he

began to talk. "Killing Kevin didn't do anything for me, Damien. He was just in the way. I wanted that unforgettable feeling I got from draining Beth's life from her body again.

I went right back to Kevin and Ashley's house. I parked down the street, snuck in through the alley, went through the bushes and waited for Ashley to get back home. Then, something I wasn't planning on happened, I heard a dog barking."

Anthony got a disgusted look on his face. "That bitch wasn't supposed to have any pets. I had to leave before she had the chance to see me. It's too bad, I wanted to see her face when her husband didn't call or come home." Anthony had this half crooked smile on his face again as he looked over at Harrington.

"Jack, you remember when you brought me in and I said there was one more girl?" He paused, his eyebrows rise as he asks the question.

"You're what... sixth life you took?" Harrington leaned back in his chair. This was what he was waiting for. He knew he had to play it cool so Anthony would tell us who and where she was. We both knew by now she was probably dead.

Anthony shook his head in disagreement. "She's alive. You are going to take me to her so I can say goodbye." He got a concerned look on his face.

I don't know what it is with this guy. I just can't read him.

"You want to tell someone goodbye, huh?" Harrington laughed and crossed his arms. "Sorry buddy, but Hell isn't going to freeze over. You fucked up."

Anthony perked up. "Then she will die, and her death will be on your hands, she is alive."

I asked him "And you know this how?"

"Because I let her live. I knew I would end up here. I put her in safe keeping. What? You don't think even I need some collateral? I am going to die." Anthony points to Harrington. "Jack you will be the one to do it."

"Well no shit." Harrington fired back.

"Now gentlemen, take me to see my wife. She is the mysterious woman you want to find so badly. If we don't go tonight she will die and it will be on your hands. You have one hour to decide. All I ask is to say goodbye and then we come right back here and I can finish telling you everything. This will end

the final chapter in my existence." He looked serious.

I waved to Harrington to go outside so we could talk in private. We stepped outside again.

"There is no fucking way we are playing this game man. He's lying," Harrington hated the idea.

I wasn't fond of it myself but if we could save a life, we had to. We walked back in to make a deal with the devil.

I paused for a moment before I said anything. "Ok Anthony, you lead us to her you can have your goodbye, then we finish up here." I'm already regretting the idea, afraid what we are going to find.

I reached into my pocket and grabbed my cell phone and made the call. A couple minutes later, three armed men will be here to escort Anthony outside, something he hasn't seen for 3 months.

"Damien. Help us. All of us." I hear a female voice. "You're going to be next."

Those familiar chills ran down my spine. I'm not hearing this. How could I be next? We have Anthony. No man alive can get out of those shackles. It riddled me how Anthony knew what

Beth had told me last night

"Damien. Damien? Help us. Please." Beth's voice whispered in my head. Could it be? It had to be.

Anthony looked at me. "You better help her Damien." He smiled.

He couldn't have heard that. Harrington had no reaction. He must not have heard her voice. He has to be talking about his wife.

There's a knock on the metal door.

I turned and said "Come in."

Three tall men entered the room. They looked like they were dressed for war. They were all wearing Kevlar armor and had 9mm handguns in their holsters. One man is carrying a shotgun. The voice in my head and the scene in front of me now, was overwhelming and I just wanted to get this over with.

They unshackled Anthony from the chair. His leg ties were still in place. One of the men forced Anthony's arms behind his back. They cuffed him and the guard nudged Anthony in the back with his shotgun. "Let's move." We headed outside.

We all loaded up into the armored van parked in

the garage. We couldn't exit through the front door.

The media would be all over this one.

One of the guards chained Anthony to his seat. He just stared at me with those cold eyes. There was just something about his eyes, I couldn't shake. I had to look away. I couldn't let him get to me.

"East, 35 miles then take a left on Pleasant Street." Anthony fell quiet after giving out the directions.

We drove east. It had to be the longest car ride of my life. Nobody said a word the entire thirty five miles. I look out the window at the fields, the sun is setting. I started to think about everything.

I felt so disgusted with Anthony. I couldn't even imagine the pain and fear that man instilled into the people he killed, the helplessness, then he just discarded the bodies like they were trash.

Beth's voice was still echoing in my head, what she had told me, I had to of made it up. I started thinking about the girl that Anthony claimed was still alive. How could she survive this long in the middle of nowhere?

We reached Pleasant Street and took a left; the van slowly came to a stop.

  9. asked "Where next, Anthony?"

"We head north 15 miles." Anthony gazed back down to the floor.

The van started moving again. God, I hope she is still alive. Hope was all we had at this point.

The engine goes silent again. Anthony's chains had been the only noise we heard aside from the vans motor every time we hit a bump in the gravel road. We continued down the road. Up ahead we saw a "bridge out" sign.

Anthony whispered, "Keep going north over the bridge."

We continued heading north over the rickety bridge. There's an old abandoned farm house covered almost entirely by trees and weeds. There was no way you could see the place from the bridge. Plus, we were out in the middle of nowhere. Damn him for being smart about this. Damn him.

"Under the second flowerpot to the left on the porch there is a key. Take it. It's for the basement door. We both get what we want, Damien." Anthony had a sinister grin on his face.

Harrington whispered in my ear. "Hey man, you

think we are good to go here?"

Anthony heard him. "It's easy Jack, pick up the key, claim your prize. We both win."

"Fuck you Anthony. You don't win shit. You better hope to god she is still alive or I'll kill you myself, right here tonight. They can lock me up for killing a piece of shit like you, I don't care. I'd be doing the world a fucking favor." Harrington was ready for a fight.

Anthony knew he was getting to Harrington. "Jack, you and I have a lot in common. The only difference is that your anger is on the outside for everyone to see, mine however is internal. You could be so much more, you could be like me."

Harrington fired back, "I will NEVER be like you, and my hands are clean of blood." Harrington turns away. "Let's do this shit boss."

We walked up to the porch. The floor boards were all rotted and decayed. The steps are all broken to pieces.

I saw the flower pot to my left, sure enough there was a key underneath it. I reached out and grabbed the rusted doorknob. The door itself looked like it was going to fall apart.

The front door was unlocked. I opened the door and I drew my flashlight. I looked over to Harrington. He already had his gun drawn and flashlight on. Neither one of us knew what to expect. We took a step into the house.

#  Chapter 6

The smell in the house is overwhelming. It just smelled like death. The walls were all cracked and water stained. The carpet on the floor was all torn up and most of it was gone. The floorboards themselves didn't even seem strong enough to hold us both.

Harrington and I didn't say anything to each other. I could tell by his face he was actually afraid. He was shaking. The sweat trickled down my forehead.

It was so humid in the house it was hard to breathe. We slowly made our way through the dark living room and stepped into the kitchen, where the smell was coming from. The cupboards were

covered in cockroaches and stains.

"She's gone man. There is no way she could still be alive in this." Harrington managed to utter.

"We have to check, we came this far." The only reassuring words I could think to say at the moment.

The smell got worse as we made our way through the kitchen and finally saw the door to the basement. The door was locked, so I used the key.

The door was heavy and creaked as it opened. Then the smell hit me. It was so nauseating. I look down and saw dead rats scattered all over the stairs. The corpses had rotting meat and stray hairs all over them. The last thing I wanted to find in this hell hole was a human body in that condition. I almost lost it, I wanted to throw up. I couldn't breathe. Harrington coughed.

"What the fuck, there's sound proof walls all around down here. He didn't want anyone finding her." Harrington took a second and paused. "He didn't want anyone hearing her either, Jesus Christ what a way to go. Man, we have to hurry. I need to get the fuck outta here. I'm about to lose it." Harrington coughs again. "For real man, let's find

the body."

We inched forward not knowing what to expect. I shined my flashlight into the darkness in front of us. There are tin cans everywhere. I guess he wanted her to stay alive for a short period. I shined my light up, "What the hell is that?" I said out loud.

We both looked up. There was what appeared to be a large tank holding water. It had a slow drip into a bowl on the ground.

"That psycho really thought these people were his pets didn't he." Harrison's words trailed off into the darkness.

We heard a floorboard creak in the back right corner of the room. I shined my light toward the sound. I was not ready to see what I saw and it hit me like a ton of bricks.

"Help me." There was a very feeble voice coming from the right corner of the room. "Please, help me, someone, anyone help me!" It was a woman's voice.

We pointed our lights to the corner. I wasn't even sure what we were seeing was human. Her face was pale and her skin was sunken into her bones. Her head had just a few clumps of strawberry blonde hair left and her stomach sank so far in she looked

dead. How the hell is she still alive? Wait, she was alive, we had to get her out!

I couldn't think straight, but I knew that time was not on our side.

We work our way through the cobwebs to this fragile being in the corner.

"We have to go now man. She doesn't have much left in her. She looks like a fucking zombie." Harrington had a sickened look on his face.

We both knelt down next to the woman and lifted her up from under her arms. Our finger tips left bruises on her skin. We had no choice she needed to get out. The woman looks up at Harrington, with what had to be the last of her energy,

"Please help me. Kill me. Please." Her voice is so weak.

"Come on lady, we are getting you outta here. You're going to make it, just hold on." Harrington's voice cracked a little, he was fighting back tears from the sight of her.

We carried her up the stairs and her leg caught on the top step. There is an ungodly snap, my stomach turned over.

I shined the flashlight towards her. The woman's right ankle snapped as it bent. She's so fragile; she's not going to make it. There's no coming back from this! I thought what the hell am I thinking? This is a human being. If she is still alive, there is still a chance.

We got her through the kitchen and the living room. We could see the headlights to the van parked outside. We were almost there. I told myself to keep going. I couldn't even look at Harrington.

We got back to the van. Everyone is shocked at what they saw except for Anthony. He remained perfectly calm chained to his seat. We get the woman into the van and buckled her up. This was her only chance to survive.

I exited the van once more. I felt it coming and dropped to my knees. I couldn't hold it any more. I had to vomit. I staggered back up to my feet and wiped my mouth with my coat sleeve. The world began to spin. Everything felt like it was in slow motion. I started to fall.

"You won." I heard a familiar female voice. "You saved her." It was Beth's voice, she reentered my mind.

Everything around me turned to blackness.

The next thing I remembered I was back in the van. Harrington was lightly slapping my face. I must have only been out for a second.

"Damien! You coming back to us man?" He had pulled me in the van. We were moving.

"Good job Damien. Now that you are back with us, I will have my goodbyes." It's Anthony's voice.

Harrington took his seatbelt off and threw himself at Anthony. His fist made contact with his jaw and blood erupted from Anthony's mouth and nose.

The guard closest to Harrington grabbed him and held him to the floor. The guard struggled to get his other pair of cuffs out while the van flew down the bumpy gravel road in the dark.

"That's your own fucking wife you fucking animal, look at her. Look at what you did. Burn in hell you son of a bitch!" Harrington struggled against the guard as he tried to get his gun out of the holster around his waist. The guard managed to get the cuffs on Harrington after a struggle, got him off the floor and into his seat.

"God damn everyone just sit down, calm down before we all get our asses fired!" The guard holding

Harrington made his stand.

Anthony doesn't even seem bothered by the blood running down his face. He just looked down and spit. As I looked over, I noticed one of his teeth in the puddle of blood beneath him. He looked up and over to his wife and instantly went limp. He thrashed and then sat straight up. His facial features softened up, his eyes blue and not as cold.

"Stephanie, I'm so sorry. It wasn't me. Can you ever forgive me?" A tear formed in the corner of his eye. "Stephanie. Please!" The tear ran down Anthony's face and over the blood, mixing with it.

The woman responded in her feeble voice. "You did this, it was you. The Anthony I once loved is dead. Look what you did to me, you are dead to me." She closed her eyes and fell silent.

None of us knew what to say. It took everyone by surprise. How could this monster react this way over something he had done? I looked back at Anthony; he had that familiar blank look on his face always staring up emotionless. This was too much. God how I wanted to put this all behind me.

"You're next Damien." It was the same voice in my head. I ignored it, pretending it's all in my head.

The ride back felt like 30 seconds. Far too much happened in the last hour to even begin to comprehend.

We pulled into the hospital. Men in white coats were running to the side of the van pushing a portable hospital bed. Please God, let her be saved. We did our part, but now we must wait and pray she survives.

Silence fell over the remaining occupants in the van as it headed back to the station.

We got back to the garage and the driver parked the van. The guards unchained Anthony from the back seat and escorted him back to his cell. I took Harrington's cuffs off him.

"Hold it together Jack" I put my hand on his

shoulder. "I'm here for you man. We did a good

thing today. Go home and get some sleep,

tomorrow we end this." My words didn't seem very

convincing. I didn't even believe them.

Harrington headed to his car. I realized I needed to get out of there. I had spent the last 2 nights in my office trying to make sense of everything. I needed to sleep in my own bed and go at it tomorrow with a clear head. I walk to my car, open the door and

turn the key in the ignition. I let out a deep breath as I begin the sixteen mile drive home.

#  Chapter 7

I have almost reached my breaking point with this case. It seemed to be darker tonight than it had been in a long time. There were so many things running through my head.

I eased on the breaks as I came to the first stop sign on my way home. The night air felt heavy. I came to a stop and looked both ways. I'm surprised about the absence of traffic at this time of night. All I could see was the fog ahead of me.

As I accelerated down the road, it felt like someone was watching me. I looked in my rear view mirror, to find no one there. I entered the fog, my

headlights barely cut through it, but I can only see about twenty feet ahead of me. This is normal for this time of year so I didn't think much of it.

I got the feeling again that I was being watched. I looked in the rear view mirror once more expecting to see someone, there was no one there.

A flash of the gruesome memory of Stephanie's condition flooded my mind.

A chill shot through my body and rested in my spine. I couldn't imagine what was going through her head the whole time. She was Anthony's prisoner. All I could do was hope she survived.

The fog got denser as I drove. I can see maybe ten to fifteen feet in front of me now and forced to slow down. As I yawned, my eyes became heavy, but, I remained alert, because I could not shake the feeling of being watched. I turned the radio up to ease the feeling. The temperature was dropping rapidly.

I forced myself not to look in the back seat. I was afraid that if I looked back there someone would be looking back at me. Insomnia and exhaustion must be contributing to these little mind games.

"Damien." I heard a woman's voice.

I told myself it's not real. It's only in my head. I needed to think of something other than this damn case.

Suddenly, the hair on the back of my neck stood on end.

I looked behind me again and I saw the silhouette of a woman. It's Beth again. My hands start to shake and I break out into a cold sweat. I tried to blink, but couldn't. I had to look away. "It's in my head, she is dead. She can't be in the car." I told myself.

The chills didn't go away. I panicked. This can't be real. My heart pounded against my chest. Everything around me seemed to be moving in slow motion now. I pulled the car over and parked.

My blood was rushing through my body as I turn around and yell, "You are not real!"

My eyes scanned the back seat, there was nothing there. It was still cold in the car. I took a second to try to clear my head.

I put the car back in gear and headed home again. I still couldn't shake the feeling someone was watching me. The fog began to dissipate a little now.

For a moment, I thought maybe this was real. Maybe there is a reason I keep hearing and seeing

things.

I kept driving through the darkness back to my home.

I pulled into the garage and parked my car. I still had that uneasy feeling that someone was with me. I got out and locked my doors and headed to the house. I slowly opened the door and reached for the light switch. I saw a shadow moving out of the corner or my left eye.

I told myself to ignore it and headed to my bedroom. The house was colder than usual for this time of year. I took off my suit jacket and slipped off my shoes. I was hoping to get some much needed sleep.

Just as I was preparing to doze off, I saw another shadow in the corner of my bedroom by the closet. I lived alone, so there couldn't be anyone in the house. Again, I tell myself to ignore it.

I laid down on the bed and closed my eyes and tried to think of something other than Anthony, the case, and everything I've been hearing and seeing.

I heard what sounded like a whisper. I couldn't make out what it was saying. It sounded very distant, but I could tell it was saying something.

I opened my eyes and looked at my alarm clock. It was 11:32PM. I tried again to fall asleep and then I heard it again.

I sat up trying to make sense of what was being said. I still couldn't make out any words. Just whispering, it sounded like a female voice. I felt a slight tingle on my forearms. I could feel hair standing on end again and goose bumps forming.

I looked at the alarm clock again. It said 1:13AM.

That familiar chill consumed my body once again.

I scream into the darkness "What the hell do you want from me?" I knew it was her again.

I expected a reply but nothing. I could still hear the whispering it was creeping closer now.

I didn't bother to turn my light back on. I feared what I had to face.

I just lay there, staring blankly into the darkness. I tried to stay calm.

"Beth, I know you're here. Tell me what you want. Tell me what I need to do to help you? How am I next?"

The whispering stopped. I sat up in my bed and listened intently. Where the hell did it go? I assessed

the situation. Every time I have seen or heard her I was overwhelmed with stress. I remained as calm as I could and it seemed as if she went away. I just knew it was in my head.

I rested my head back on my pillow and closed my eyes. I could rest now that I knew for a fact it was all in my head.

I began to fall asleep, when suddenly I feel two hands on my shoulders. My eyes shot open and my heart raced.

When my vision was somewhat focused again, I saw her once more. She was levitating over my bed with her arms extended. I felt a mild current radiating off of her as she got closer to my arm. She reached out to me like she wanted to touch me.

I looked into those dead, pain filled eyes and screamed once more. "What the hell do you want from me Beth, how do I fucking help you?"

I felt a jolt and was lifted off my bed. I felt dizzy now. My head filled with static once more. It felt like I was unable to open my eyes or move. I was paralyzed; I had no control over whatever this was.

Everything went black. I felt as if I was dying. I just let go. I couldn't fight, I couldn't struggle.

Then almost instantly, it stopped. I had control over my body again. I opened my eyes and could not believe what I saw. I was in the middle of the field again. This time it was different. Beth was on the ground, Anthony standing over her with the knife. His eyes were a burning red color, his face frozen in fear. There was black mist surrounding him. Was this what I was meant to see?

Anthony lowered himself to the ground to stick the knife into the girl. His face was still full of fear. He stuck the knife into her stomach and looked directly at me. He rakes the blade up, spilling her blood.

"Help me Damien, it wasn't me." His eyes were normal now and full of sorrow. The mist suddenly disappeared as he turned in my direction. He screamed at me again, "Help me, God please save my soul!"

Just like that, he smiled and continued with his kill. His eyes were so different, burning red and full of hate.

Everything began to blur as I fell to the ground. I got the feeling of absolute emptiness as I open my eyes and gasp for breath. I was back in my bed in a

cold sweat. I looked over to my alarm clock. Its 12:22AM.

At this point I didn't know what was real and what wasn't. All I knew was that what I just experienced was very disturbing. I tried to calm myself down and fall back to sleep. My house is silent. The cold feelings, the static, even the whispering was gone. At least now I'm alone. Or Am I?

All I can think of right now is why me? Why am I experiencing all of this or maybe I was going crazy. I finally managed to fall asleep.

#  Chapter 8

Its 8:25AM when I arrive back at the station the next morning. Harrington is already here. I wasn't about to tell him what had happened again last night. I couldn't have anyone thinking I was crazy. I just had to tell myself it was a dream even though at this point I was unsure if it was real or not.

"Hey man you look like shit." Harrington says as he saw me walking up.

I look down for a moment. "Yeah, didn't sleep much last night."

He could tell that something was up. He looked at

me and paused for a moment.

"You sure that's all it is?" His voice softens as he asks.

I nodded my head as we walked into the building. I prepared myself for what was about to take place. I couldn't appear too shook up or Anthony would feed off of that. I cleared my head again and took a deep breath.

We entered the interrogation room and sat down. Anthony was escorted in by two guards who sat him down and chained him to his chair. Anthony's stare immediately struck Harrington. "You are almost ready Jack." He said with a chuckle.

Harrington turned away and acted like he didn't hear him. Apparently, Anthony wasn't going to be quiet today.

I looked at Anthony. The images flashed through my mind from the previous night. For a brief second I saw the red in his eyes, I blinked, then it was gone. The cold eyes of a killer met mine.

When Anthony was secured, the guards exited the room. The metal door shut slowly behind them. The dim lighting in the room casted a shadow over Anthony's face as he directed his attention toward

me.

He grinned and began to speak. "Where was I before our little... detour?" He grinned.

"Ah yes, Rachael and Ashley. I waited two nights before I went back to either of their houses. I spent some much needed time with my wife." Anthony said; his face expressionless.

Harrington tensed up and started in on Anthony. "You saw what you did to her. You are a fucking monster. That was the woman you loved. The woman you vowed to love and protect until you both died."

Anthony turned his gaze to Harrington.

"I have protected her, and we will both be dying here very soon. We will be together again." Anthony laughs.

Harrington jumped up from his chair and grabbed Anthony by the throat and gets face to face with him.

"You will never touch her again, not in this life, not in the next. She wanted me to take her life, to end what you did to her." Harrington says intensely.

He shoved Anthony farther back into his chair with a violent jolt and let go of his neck.

"Now, finish telling us about Rachael and Ashley." Harrington said as he tried to calm himself down.

"As you wish Jack, if you think that you are the least bit threating to me you are wrong." Anthony replied with a smile.

"As for Rachael, I wanted to see more. I went over to her cage. I peered through the blinds, but I didn't see her. I heard the water running so I went to the back west side of the house. Her shower was running." Anthony's eyes lit up as he continued.

"I quietly used my key and let myself in the back door. I slowly walked through the kitchen and peered in her bathroom door. She had it half open. I could see just enough through the shower curtain. Her hair was wet and gently slid down her neck and back as she bent down with her razor. She took such delicate strokes over those beautiful long silky legs. I knew what she was going to be doing shortly." Anthony's face fell expressionless once more and he closed his eyes.

I could tell he was reenacting the events of that night in his mind, enjoying every second of it.

"So you went in and killed her correct?" I stated, trying hurry up the process.

Anthony tilted his head slightly, looked at me and began to talk.

"No Damien, I waited, I wanted to see my stunning pet do her little trick again. I ducked in her back room which she obviously didn't use. I waited in the dark, watching her. I heard her shut the shower off and blow dry her hair. She had a towel wrapped around her body as she walked to her room."

Anthony paused and fell silent again.

"Anthony!' I yell. "Continue your damn story and hurry this up. No quiet game today."

Anthony smiled at me and said. "What's wrong Damien? Is it exciting you? Or is it Beth." He laughs.

It made me wonder if he had any knowledge of the things that I have been seeing and hearing. He seemed to be tapped into my thoughts. I can't tell anyone what I have been experiencing, can't afford to have anyone think I'm going crazy this late in the game.

Anthony leaned forward a little more. "I went in

to watch her get dressed up for her little show. I didn't like what I saw; I thought she took pride in this. She was in her room crying as she was putting on her lingerie. She was broken too, just like all the other girls I let stay in my houses. I knew she was but this was the first time seeing it. I smiled and quietly snuck back through the kitchen and let myself out the back door. She must have heard me because shortly after the kitchen light came on. I was done with this one for the night. I left the area and headed over to check on Ashley. Tonight was her night." Anthony took a deep breath.

"Just get to the fucking confession Anthony." Harrington says.

Anthony could tell that he has us both almost over the edge. This was his plan all along.

"I pulled up to where I allowed Ashley to stay." Anthony put his hands in his lap and continues. "I slowed to a stop in my usual spot down the alley. It was 3:30AM when I arrived. I grabbed my tools out of the car."

His smirking face still hidden in the shadow, but his eyes lit up.

"I had a treat for her dog. As I walked towards the

chain link fence, I saw him laying down out back. His head poked up as he heard me coming. I stared the beast in the eyes and it cowered. It knew I was in control. I picked up the small dog and rubbed its head. 'It's time to go see your owner.' I reassured the beast."

Anthony's hands mimic the actions of petting a small dog.

"So that's what started it!?" Harrington yelled at Anthony. "It was the fucking dog?"

Anthony Responded. "I got my key and cracked open the door, I grabbed one of my tools. I put her dog down in the kitchen. It was shaking. I picked up my gas can and dumped it all over the animal. It whimpered as I lit a match and tossed it down. There was a flash of bright yellow light. I shut the door quickly and let myself back out the gate. Then, I casually walked back to my car. As I drove off, smoke rolled out of the house."

I lost it as the mental image haunted me. I got up and ran over to the wall by the door, dropped to my knees and lost my stomach in the trash can.

I pulled myself back to my feet rushed over to Anthony, cocked back my fist and buried it as hard

as I could into his kidney. I didn't say a word, and he didn't appear to feel it, our eyes locked the entire time. He was feeling me out, he knew he was winning.

I sat back in my chair. Harrington looked at me and he nodded with a smile.

"It all burned down. She couldn't get out in time. They pulled her ashy corpse out of the house. I believe it was you, Jack, who called me to inform me that there was a fire at one of my residences." Anthony said.

Harrington tensed up. "If only I had known of all your shit you did at the time, I would have hand delivered a bullet directly into your fucking brain." He said through clenched teeth.

Anthony smiled at Harrington. "You will play your part in this soon enough Jack.

"After the call, I knew I wouldn't have much time left. People don't go missing long without raising some suspicion. It was all a matter of time before someone wondered about the whereabouts of Beth, Kevin and Ashley and the fire. I went home and sat down. I pondered what my dear Rachael's last act would be. She must have hated what she did, but

she loved to be the center of attention. Just like that, I had an idea. I knew what I was going to do to her and she would love it."

The end is nearing I know it is. One more confession and we will have everything. Harrington and I know it and so does Anthony.

Anthony smiled and said "And now I will tell you about Rachael. After you told me about the fire Jack, I went back to Rachael's house. It was just after dark around 9:15PM. I was thinking about my next move. I looked through the blinds. There she was putting on her little show." His breath was heavier now.

"I felt the blood rushing through my body. I was going to get that sweet intoxication of ultimate control one more time." Anthony leaned back in his chair out of the light.

"She had her music on so I knew this was my chance. I went around to the back, reached in my pocket and pulled out my key. I quietly let myself in."

Anthony looked into the light above the table. He squinted as he looked into the bright bulb. "I wonder if this was the last thing they saw before I

took their lives."

Harrington was quick to reply. "You won't be seeing any kind of light where you are going Anthony."

Anthony took a deep breath and sat back. "I walked through her kitchen, and stopped before I entered the room. I knew exactly what her role in this was going to be now." He smiled as he continued.

"I slowly walked up behind her. I looked at the computer and was disgusted with what I saw. Yes, her webcam was on and she was talking to multiple men. No wonder she was crying the other night. The things some women do for money." He trails off in thought.

"She would soon see she was mine. Her little show was for me and me alone. I inched closer behind her. I could see myself entering the view of the camera. She did too."

He paused and grinned at Harrington. "She screamed as she stood up and turned around. We were now face to face. As I cocked back my fist and slammed it into her right temple. She fell back down onto the couch, her eyes rolled back in her head."

I asked him "So, you killed her there with people watching?"

Anthony's eye began to twitch again as he talked. Maybe this was why he hid his face in the shadows so often. He didn't want us to see something.

He took a breath and continued. "They did see me, my face, what I did, everything. I didn't care. I walked over to the camera and unplugged it. Then, I went to her room and looked for something to cover her up with. I grabbed her robe hanging in the closet and wrapped it around her." He looked down toward the floor.

"I bound her body in duct tape just as I did with Beth. I knew she wouldn't remain unconscious for much longer. We still had a stop to make. I exited the house and walked to my car as I fantasized about what was about to take place."

Harrington interrupted "Just get to the fucking point so we can be done with this."

Anthony paid no attention to the comment. "I pulled the car around back and was about to claim my prize. She was on the floor, a small trickle of blood coming from where my fist connected with her head. I picked her up and carried her to the car.

I opened the back door and threw her in. She moved a little and moaned. She was still out cold."

"What were these stops you needed to make?" I asked him.

Anthony grinned "You already know one Damien. You will be going there tonight to collect what is left of the bodies."

It was a very awkward feeling. I was almost anxious to retrieve the bodies. This may very well be the last day we have to talk with this monster if he sticks to what he is telling us now.

Anthony leaned forward as far as his shackles would let him. "The other spot Damien was my house. I needed to get some tools." He said with a grin.

"I drove as she slept in the back seat. I pulled up to my garage and took one last look at Rachael. She was still asleep so I exited the car. I entered my garage and grabbed my saw then walked back to the car and we drove some more. She was about to meet the others fate."

Harrington lit up a cigarette, his hands shaking. His anger was getting to him again.

"We had better not find anyone hacked to fucking

bits, you sick son of a bitch." Harrington paused as if he was mentally preparing for what we would find in the field.

Anthony's eyes pierced Harrington. "I assure you Jack the saw wasn't for my pets. We drove the dirt roads heading to the corn field. I hear a muffled scream from the backseat. Rachael had awakened. I didn't say a word to her. I just listened to her scream for help. The duct tape over her mouth held in her words. Then I saw it. I slammed on my breaks and felt her slam into my seat. She was still trying to scream as I got out of the car with the saw."

I didn't want to know what happened next. Anthony talked about the killings as if they were trophies.

"I walked into the woods. I could still hear her muffled screams. I walked a couple feet into the darkness where I saw just what I was looking for. There was a small cluster of trees that were probably four inches thick. I cut three of them down. They didn't have many branches and were only around 5 feet tall. They were perfect." Anthony laughs again.

"I drug them back to the car and popped the trunk. There was some rope I used to tie the logs to

the top of the car. We were done here. I got back in, leaned over the seat, looked at Rachael and told her ' _It will all be over soon my pet_.'"

Anthony licks his lips as he continues the journey. "We found the cornfield. I followed in my old tracks until we arrived at our spot. I got out of the car and walked around to check out my surroundings. Most of what once was Beth and Kevin was still there. The animals around here must like the taste of human flesh."

Harrington shifts in his chair uncomfortably and says "Just hurry the fuck up and get to the end. We aren't impressed one bit."

Anthony nodded. "I got out of the car and untied the logs. I reached back in and grabbed the saw then proceeded to cut both ends of the logs to roughly

45 degree angles. She was screaming in the back the whole time. The feeling of absolute power overtook me once again. After all the logs were cut, I jammed the sharp ends into the soft ground ensuring they were only a couple feet apart and solid. When they were all lined up correctly, I returned to the car."

Anthony's eyes burned right through me. I wasn't even sure if he was focusing on me or drifting into

space as he was talking.

"I opened the door and grabbed her by the arm and pulled her to her feet. She was screaming and tried to look away from me. I grabbed her by the jaw and directed her eyes into mine and told her 'This is your final show.'"

Anthony paused and asked me "You know what every well maintained field needs, don't you Damien?"

I didn't reply. I maintained a blank expression, trying not to give him any gratification.

Anthony's face tensed up. "I walked her over to the logs sticking out of the ground. She kept trying to fall to the ground to get away. I overpowered her and turned her around as we reached the place of her destiny."

He took a deep breath and slowly raised his hands with his palms up. "I touched her face once more as I inhaled her fear, giving me all the power. I put both my hands on her shoulders and shoved her with everything in me. Her eyes shot open as she let out a scream. I could feel her body giving in to the sharpened logs as they pierced her back, breaking her."

I turned my head for a moment. God damn, I almost felt it. My spine tingled. I couldn't imagine what went through her head at that moment and how it felt.

With apathy Anthony finishes. "I cut the tape from her arms. They flailed around as she had no control anymore. I gazed in her eyes again, but said nothing to her. I took two steps back and for my own pleasure, I lunged at her one more time with my shoulder. I felt the logs ripping through her. She tried desperately to escape, but she was rooted in place. I took a step back. I could see the tips of the two longer logs under her skin; they almost pierced all the way through her. The third log was stuck in her lower spine. My masterpiece was complete." Anthony leaned back into the shadow again and fell silent.

I hit the stop button on the voice recorder. We have everything we need. His full confession, this can all end now.

Harrington stood up and walked over to the blinds and closed them. He then slowly made his way over to Anthony. I saw his hand sliding down to his gun. He unsnapped the holster and his hand wrapped

around the weapon.

"What the fuck are you doing Harrington?" I yelled out.

He ignored me. He just slowly raised his 9mm to Anthony's head.

"He isn't going to tell us where they are Damien. I'm done with this shit. I'm ending this now. Here's how we are going to do this. I'm going to pull the trigger, his brains will be on the floor, you arrest me, and then we both go down as heroes. This scumbag gets what he deserves." Harrington said. I could tell he wasn't fucking around.

"Harrington, stop now. If you do this you are no better than him. Fucking let it go!"

Anthony interrupted. "Tell him Damien. Tell him how Beth has come to you. Or should I? You've seen me kill. You have seen me for what I truly am, A god," stunning both of us.

"What the fuck is he talking about Damien?" Harrington shouts back, I saw the sweat dripping from his forehead now.

"The last couple of nights I've been having nightmares, they seemed so real. I don't know what

the hell has been happening."

"Are you going nuts on me now Damien?" Harrington asks. His finger is tight against the trigger as he shoves the gun harder into Anthony's face. Harrington's hands began trembling.

"Jack! Jesus Christ put the fucking gun down, get ahold of yourself. Think about what you're doing!" I screamed out trying desperately to gain some control of the situation.

Harrington let out a yell as he pulled the gun back and blasted him in the cheekbone. He shoved his gun back in his holster, looked at me, shook his head and walked out of the room.

I don't know what the hell just happened. I looked over at Anthony; his face is bruised up pretty bad.

He looked back at me and said "You know where to find the bodies Damien. I've already shown you..."

# Chapter 9

the hell has been happening."

"Are you going nuts on me now Damien?" Harrington asks. His finger is tight against the trigger as he shoves the gun harder into Anthony's face. Harrington's hands began trembling.

"Jack! Jesus Christ put the fucking gun down, get ahold of yourself. Think about what you're doing!" I screamed out trying desperately to gain some control of the situation.

Harrington let out a yell as he pulled the gun back and blasted him in the cheekbone. He shoved his gun back in his holster, looked at me, shook his head and walked out of the room.

I don't know what the hell just happened. I looked over at Anthony; his face is bruised up pretty bad.

He looked back at me and said "You know where to find the bodies Damien. I've already shown you..."

He had to be there. I opened the door and immediately saw him.

Hartington looked at me as I entered the garage and said "Hey man, sorry about that, I let him get to me. We have to find those bodies. What the hell was he talking about you already knowing where they are?"

"He's just playing his head games." I lie. "After you left he told me where they were. He's trying to turn us against each other." I replied.

Harrington nods. "Yeah I should have seen that one coming, fuck!"

I looked down to the ground and said "Let's go recover what's left of the bodies, this ends now."

Harrington agreed. He threw me the keys as he walked towards the car.

As we drove off, I instinctively knew where we were heading. It was like I had been there before.

I turned the radio on as we drove. We both remained silent. I was pretty sure Harrington was thinking the same thing I was, Anthony's going to get locked away for good. Once we found the bodies his fate would be sealed.

We drove for almost twenty miles when I spotted something familiar. I hit the brakes and the car comes to a stop.

"Is this it?" Harrington asked.

"This is where he told me to look. See the tire tracks entering the field?"

We entered the field slowly. I can't believe it, this was the same field I entered in what I thought was my dream. We drove about a quarter of a mile and then saw the opening, this was the spot.

I stopped the car and we got out. Right in front of us rested the remains of Rachael, just as Anthony had described her to us. Her flesh was stripped off her bones, the trees stuck through her ribcage. Her Skull had only traces of hair, and the skin on her face appeared to have melted away. The stench was overwhelming.

I grabbed my cell phone again and dialed headquarters. It rang twice and then my boss answered.

"We found them. Send the coroners we are standing over Rachael Hartman's corpse right now. Anthony confessed they were all out here." I replied.

"Good job Damien. I have your position on GPS I will send them out to you."

I hung up the phone and walked over to where Harrington stood. There were bones scattered everywhere.

"I would have to assume this is both of them." Harrington questioned.

I look around some more. The bones are picked dry. I saw a skull that appeared to match Jakes facial structure, but I don't see the other skull.

"Coroners are in route." I said as I placed my hand on his shoulder. "We did it Jack."

He just shook his head. We scanned the area more trying to find the other skull. I doubt we will be able to find it, something could have run off with it.

Without a search team, it would be like finding a needle in a haystack among all this corn.

It took almost an hour for the coroners to arrive. They put on gloves as they got out of the vehicle preparing to take the bodies back to the morgue. There was no reason for us to stick around any longer. I looked over to Harrington and said "You ready?"

"Let's get the fuck out of here man. I've had

enough." He replied.

We walked over and got in the car. I took one last look at the field. I had that feeling of being watched, this time though, it felt different. I expected to see Beth but I saw nothing. I hoped that finding the remains would help to put her soul to rest.

We headed back to the station, it was a silent ride.

I knew Harrington wanted to ask me about what

Anthony had told me, I just hoped he wouldn't.

We arrived back at the station and pulled into the garage. Harrington stepped out and lit up a cigarette.

"So we're done with this right?" He asks, as he takes a drag.

"We are for now." I answered back. "I'm going to go have a few words with Anthony before I let the press know he has made a full confession." I tell Harrington.

He nodded. He still wasn't saying much. I walked in the door and headed back down to the basement to Anthony's cell.

I used my ID to gain access to the hallway leading to the holding cells.

I heard his voice call out. "I told you Damien. You

already knew," He knew I was here.

"How the hell did I know where they were Anthony?" I said quietly as I walked closer to the bars of the cell.

He laughed. "You were there Damien. You're next."

Immediately I responded. "How am I next, we have you Anthony. I'm making a press statement shortly to inform media you have made a full confession and we found the bodies of your victims."

It was a mistake to come down here. I knew right away he was just going to mess with my head even more.

As I walked away, he had to throw in one last statement.

"I let you see me for what I really am Damien. I will be seeing you after my trial." Anthony said.

I kept walking pretending like I didn't hear anything. I used my ID to exit the room and headed back up the stairs.

I pondered on Anthony's comment. He seemed so confident that I was going to be his next victim but

that was impossible, he's locked up.

I walked through the hallway towards the entrance of the building. I saw the mob of reporters outside waiting to hear my statement.

I opened the front door and paused for a moment. The crowd swarmed closer to me and soon became a frenzy, microphones, voice recorders and video cameras shoved in my face. I paused for a minute then raised my hand to my chest.

"Damien, Damien, has he confessed? When will the trial be? How does it feel to be in the same room as that murderer?" The questions all came at once. So many voices I couldn't even tell who they were coming from, their camera lights blinding me.

I finally spoke. "All I can tell you at this time is that Anthony Smith has made a full confession and we have recovered the bodies."

The media bombarded me with more questions. "When will the trial be? Did he really do it? What was his motivation?"

"I will know in a matter of time when the court date will be set. Again, Anthony has made a full confession and we will be prosecuting him to the fullest extent. That's all I can say for now."

The crowd was relentless as they continued to shout out questions Flashes continued to blind me. I turned and walked back into the building. I could still hear them shouting at me as the door shut behind me.

I had enough for the day. It was time for me to go home and take some much needed time off. I knew that I wouldn't have to see Anthony until they set the trial date.

I walked back out to the parking garage and got in my car and let out a huge sigh of relief. I put my key in the ignition and started the car. I looked in the rear view mirror, just to ease my insecurities. I guess I was paranoid from my last drive home, just as I expected nothing was there.

On the drive home, I turned the radio up and tried to clear my head. The drive didn't take very long. I parked my car in the garage and entered my house.

The feeling of paranoia came over me instantly. I tried to mask the feeling by turning the T.V. on.

Of course it was on the news discussing details surrounding Anthony Smith. I sat down in my recliner and tolerated the news until my eyes became too heavy and I drifted off to sleep. For once it was

a nice and calm dreamless sleep.

I was probably out for around three hours when I was startled by my phone ringing.

"Hello?" I muttered as I tried to focus.

"Hey man, it's Jack. We aren't done with Anthony."

"What? What do you mean, they still have to set a date for the trial and it's probably going to take some time for both sides to prepare for it."

"No man, that's what I'm calling about. He must have a fucking death wish; Anthony has demanded that the trial be tomorrow. It's a high profile case and because of the circumstances, they pulled some strings and the trials tomorrow." Harrington sounds excited. "Can you believe that shit? Case fucking closed!"

The information stunned me in my tracks. Harrington was right. Case closed. Wasn't he?

"What time?" I asked Harrington.

"It starts at 1pm tomorrow. The fucker is going to fry man!" He responded with the same enthusiasm.

"Sounds good, I'll see you there." I said and hung up.

This was it, tomorrow we begin the journey to end his existence, wash our hands of this nightmare for good. I got out of the recliner and headed for the bedroom. I had to get some sleep to prepare for tomorrows events.

I laid down and closed my eyes. It was the most peace I had felt in months.

Beep. Beep. Beep. Beep.

My alarm jolted me awake. It was 8AM. I was actually kind of surprised that I slept the entire night. Maybe I wasn't going insane and those visions were merely hallucinations from fatigue.

I took a shower and attempted to make myself look presentable.

I got dressed, and did a final check in the mirror as I finished adjusting my tie. I looked and felt like a new man.

It was 10:24AM so I put my shoes on, got in the car and drove to the courthouse. I was unsure of what the day would bring.

#  Chapter 10

I arrived at the court house early expecting to have to wait for Harrington. He was already there. He saw me pull up and waved me over. There was already a large crowd of reporters waiting for any information they could get.

I parked my car and made my way through the sea of media to talk to him. We walked inside and shut the door.

"Hey man you may be a little surprised when you go in." He told me.

"Whys that?" I ask back.

"He wanted to represent himself, he must have something planned."

I shook my head. "I bet he's going to try to plead insanity. That has to be his game." I said.

We walked to the waiting room and took a seat. The case was all over the news. I was so sick of being reminded of this nightmare I lived. We sat and

waited for a couple hours until it was time.

It's now a little after noon and we were told to enter the room. To my surprise, there were not very many people there. Anthony was sitting in the front of the room, his arms cuffed and legs shackled. He looked over and smirked at us. That's when I knew for sure he had something planned.

The bailiff came in and walked over to Anthony and told him to raise his right hand.

"Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help you God?"

Anthony raised his hand as told. "I do." He says with a smile.

The judge began the trial.

He looks at Anthony and said "Anthony Smith, you are here charged with five counts of murder. Do you--"

Anthony interrupts "Your honor, I am guilty." "I enjoyed doing what I did. I will do it again if I get out. I will take the chair. I am prepared to face the consequences of my actions." his face lit up.

The whole court room went silent. This was not what we had expected at all. I don't think anyone in

the room was prepared for what just happened.

Harrington leaned over and whispered "Told you he had a death wish man."

The judge looked just as shocked as the rest of us. These cases are usually drawn out for days, weeks, even months.

Anthony turns around and looked towards Harrington and I. "Those two will be there to watch me fry," He says as he points to us.

The judge made his decision. "Anthony Smith, I hereby sentence you to death by the electric chair. The execution date and time will be established at a later date."

Anthony is escorted back to his cell. This was the most bizarre trial I had ever attended. This was the result desired, but why was he making this so easy?

Harrington and I waited for the room to clear out a little; I didn't want to deal with the media. The next time we see Anthony we will watch him die. This wouldn't be my first execution, but this would be the first time someone had practically begged for death. Maybe it was his conscience catching up to him. It just seemed so rushed.

I didn't know what to think.

An hour went by and the mob started to dwindle. Someone had fed them enough information to satisfy them.

I looked towards Harrington and said "We should go back to the hospital and check on Anthony's wife, at least let her know he got what he deserves."

"Good plan man. She will be glad to know the son of a bitch is going to die for what he did." I heard the excitement in his voice.

We got up to leave. There were still reporters outside and we both know they were waiting for us to comment.

We walked closer to the front door. As soon as they caught a glimpse of us they bombarded us and gathered around. I turned the doorknob and exited the court house, knowing what was coming.

"Damien, how do you feel about the trial? Was it even a trial? Why did he rush his sentencing?"

The questions start. I just look down as I walk through the media crowd.

"Damien, Jack, care to comment on the case?" More questions. I hate this part of the job.

I stopped and looked into the crowed. "Neither Jack nor I have any comments at this time. Thank you and have a great night."

We continue to ignore them as we approach our vehicles. They were still on our tails like a pack of hungry wolves.

I opened my door, got in and started the ignition. As I put the car into gear, I had to honk so the mob could clear a hole for me to exit, desiring answers to the questions they continue to shout out at me.

Finally I broke free from the crowd and headed to the hospital.

It was only a two mile drive to the hospital. I parked and waited for Harrington to arrive. Only a couple of minutes passed when I saw him pull in. He looked a little worried as he got out of his car and walked towards me.

"I don't know if I'm ready to see her again, Damien. That night fucked with my head" He said as he shook his head.

"It will be ok, she is alive because of us, keep that in mind." I reassured him.

"Yeah but what kind of life is it. She is never going to be 100% after all that shit." He stopped to think

for a second. "Well, anyways, let's go have a talk with her." He says as he entered the hospital.

We walk into the hospital and head over to the receptionist desk.

"Hello, we need to speak with Stephanie Smith. Can you tell me what room she is in?" as I show her my badge.

"Why yes officer, let me see." She took a look at her computer momentarily. "She is in room 206. Is that all I can help you with today, sir?"

"Yes, that is all, thank you," we headed down the hall to her room.

Harrington and I rode the elevator to the third floor. I could just tell he was nervous.

The door opened and we headed down the hall until we reached room 206.

I knocked on the door as we entered and said in a gentle voice "Stephanie? I'm sorry to bother you like this, but can we talk for a moment?"

The same familiar and timid voice emits from the bed, "Officers?"

We move closer to the bed, she was smiling. "I just want to tell you both thank you for saving my life."

"Don't mention it Mrs. Smith. I'm just sorry that you had to go through what you did. We have some news for you regarding Anthony." Harrington said.

The hatred for Anthony consumed her face as she began to talk. "That bastard changed. That was not my husband who did this to me. The husband I knew died when he won all that money."

I asked her, "What do you mean?"

"He hated his job. He tried so many times to find something else to do with his life but nothing paid well enough. I didn't mind the way we were living, even though it was paycheck to paycheck."

Harrington asks "So you think the money changed him?"

"Not the money, what he did for the money. He told me he would do anything; even sell his own soul if he had to in order to give us a better life."

Tears streamed down her face as she continued. "That was the night my husband died. I don't know what he did, but he won the lottery somehow and he changed. He went through phases of staring off into space, looking up with a blank expression on his face—"

She paused. "Well the best way I can describe it is

when I looked into his eyes, it looked like the devil staring back at me."

I got chills. I knew exactly what she was talking about. Then, immediately the vision of Anthony in my dream flashed into my mind, his eyes red with the black aura around him.

Harrington's voice snapped me back. "Stephanie, he went to trial this afternoon. He wanted it rushed. We don't know why. We were only there for about ten minutes. First thing he said was that he was guilty and deserved the death penalty."

Stephanie didn't seem surprised. She didn't hesitate at all.

"Officers, you can't let him die. That's what he wants. There is evil in this man. Please, don't let it out."

I didn't even know what to say. I am not a believer of the paranormal. I always tried to keep a level head, especially with everything that has been happening lately. This though, I have to admit made me rethink everything. Just maybe what we are dealing with is way out of our hands.

I looked to Stephanie one last time and said "Thank you for your help, I hope you get well

soon."

Harrington smiled and waved one last time, not sure what to say to her. We exit the room and back to the elevator.

"Hey man, what the hell is with this guy? Maybe he didn't just flip out like we thought. You think this shit could have been the reason you have been seeing weird shit in your dreams?" Harrington asks.

"I have no idea what is going on Jack. We can put all this behind us now that it's over until the execution. After that, we wash our hands of this animal." Reassuring him, hoping it would stop him from saying anything else about it.

Harrington looked me in the eyes and said "Yeah,

I suppose so. But I'm going out man, I need a drink.

I'll see you tomorrow."

That's the reaction I was hoping for. Not that I like seeing my partner going out and getting drunk every night, I just wanted to avoid talking about my experiences.

We headed back to our vehicles. I waved to Harrington and he nodded back. I watched him as he drove away. I let out a deep breath and drove home. It's going to be an early night for me.

The next day I was awakened by the phone ringing. I looked at the caller ID, it was my boss.

"Hello?"

"Damien, I'm sorry to be the one that has to tell you this, but don't come in to work today. Jack told me you are becoming delusional. He said he was worried about you. Take a few days off and try to come back Monday with a level head."

"What the hell is he talking about?" I tried to play dumb.

"Damien, you are stressed, take the days off and come in Monday."

He hung up.

I didn't know what the hell this was about, but I was not happy with what Harrington had done. I knew he did it for my best interest, this was what I was trying to avoid, but at least the investigation was over.

The next two nights I slept like a baby. My boss

was right, the time off did do me a lot of good. At least that's what I thought up until Sunday night.

I fell asleep early on Sunday just as I had done the previous two nights. I looked at my clock at 9:31PM and closed my eyes.

"Damien." The voice resonated thought my mind as I shot up out of bed.

It was Anthony's voice again. I knew this was impossible. I was half asleep, so it had to be in my head. I rested my head on the pillow again and closed my eyes once more, my little vacation was over and I had to be in the office at 9AM tomorrow.

"Damien, I'm coming for you. You are next." It sounded quiet and distant this time. I forced myself to ignore it and fell asleep. Tomorrow I will go in and clear things up with Harrington.

#  Chapter 11

I arrived at the parking garage fifteen minutes early, Harrington was waiting for me. As I got out of the car, he was already almost to me. He looked very tense and nervous.

"Damien, I'm sorry man, I was just worried –"

I stopped him there. "Jack, I know you were concerned. I'm not mad at you or anything, having a few days off to clear my head was a good thing."

Harrington's posture loosened up a little. He took another drag from his cigarette and exhaled as he said "Hey we got a date with Anthony, they are taking him out tomorrow. The media is all over that shit, they even let a reporter interview him."

I looked down and shook my head and asked "How did he manage that?"

Harrington shrugs. "Well, I guess when you're the current most hated man on the planet and ask to

pay for what you've done, most of the population gets blood thirsty and wants to fry the fucker." He laughed.

I haven't watched TV since the courtroom. As we walked to the entrance of the building, I paused to ask. "So, what happened with his interview?"

Harrington sat on the step to finish his cigarette. "Well, he pretty much said he deserves to die and everything he owns goes to his wife, that's the short version. But then he tried to attack the reporter when he was done."

"Does that surprise you?" I asked him. "So when is the execution?"

"Today man, it's fucked up. That's why they wanted you back today." He paused and looked at me awaiting my reaction.

I thought about what Stephanie told us at the hospital.

I didn't know what to say.

"You alright man? I'm sorry I couldn't tell you." Harrington said, wanting me to say something.

"What time?" I asked him.

"You have an hour to get ready bro. Again, I

wanted to be the one to tell you," He said concerned.

"Well shit." That was the only thing I could think to say. "I'm going up to my office, so I'll meet you back here in a half an hour."

I walk inside and headed to my office. I needed some time to think.

I had no need for the papers scattered all over my desk now. The case is closed. I gave them one last look as I threw them away.

I stopped when I came across a picture of Beth's body in Anthony's file. It was one of the images that he had taken the night after he killed her. Images flashed in my mind from the evening she was killed.

Thirty minutes seemed to just fly by. I look at the clock, it was time. I went back downstairs to meet with Harrington.

"You ready man?" He asked as I approached the parking garage door.

"Yeah let's just go get this done and over with." Harrington nodded. "Let's head out then."

This was the first execution he has attended. He looked a little shaken up.

We get in the car and drive to the pen.

The drive was short; Harrington stared straight ahead as he drove. Stephanie's words still haunted my thoughts.

We arrived at our destination. We headed to the gate where the armored guard was waiting for us. We flashed our badges for clearance to enter.

He nodded and hit the unlock switch and waved us forward as the gate opened.

We were met by two more armed guards on the other side of the gate.

One of the men waved and said "Over here officers."

We followed the guard in. The atmosphere changed. The air was heavier down here. It was almost like finality of sorrow and regret illuminated the hallway, knowing these men were headed to their final destination.

We reach the viewing room. One of the men spoke up. "You two are requested inside." He said.

This was nothing new to me. I usually had to assist on the inside. We continued to the next room. The

guard opened the door; it slammed and locked behind us.

We took a seat and awaited Anthony's entrance. There was a man doing last minute maintenance checks on the devices that were about to shoot 1,700 volts into Anthony's skull.

"Damn man, this shit is unreal. I mean yeah, I've seen it in the movies, but wow." Harrington said as we waited.

"Don't worry Jack, I know the feeling. This isn't somewhere I like to be either."

There were three loud bangs on the door, and then it opened. Anthony entered, escorted by two guards and a preacher. He looked different. His head shaved, but those evil eyes instantly directed to Harrington. He smiled as he walked past us.

He stopped at the chair, sat down forcefully. One of the men put the leather strap around Anthony's chest and legs as the preacher reached for the bible and prayed for Anthony.

I couldn't help but stare. Anthony remained calm and said nothing. Most of the other electrocutions I have witnessed, the inmates begged for their lives claiming their innocence.

The man put one final strap across Anthony to keep his head still. He then soaked the sponges that would carry the electricity through Anthony's brain.

Now it was time, he would get what he deserves.

The man responsible for throwing the switch that would end Anthony's life spoke up. "If you have anything else you would like to say Anthony, now is the time."

Anthony turned his head, his eyes piercing me. "I will see you very soon, Damien." He said as he laughed.

It hit me like a ton of bricks. He was so sure of himself in his moment before his death. I just couldn't understand his thought process.

I looked over to my partner. As he looked back at me and said "Well fuck, here we go man."

I nodded back to him. The executioner looked at the clock on the wall and said "It's time."

He pulled the lever down. Anthony's body thrusts upward against the straps that were holding him in place and then there was that ungodly sizzle.

He didn't scream, he didn't moan, nothing. The only sound was the sizzle of flesh. Amazingly, he

was still breathing. The lever was pulled again. Anthony's body violently jerked up again and began to convulse and twitch.

The cloth over his face had shaken off. His teeth were clenched shut, his eyes wide open; they looked as if they were going to pop from the convulsions, but still locked on Harrington.

Smoke rolled from his ears and nose. Miraculously, he was still breathing heavily. The man turned the switch off for a moment and walked over to put the cloth back over Anthony's burning face. I could smell it now, burning flesh.

"What the fuck man, he just took two straight up shots of voltage, how the fuck is he still breathing?" Harrington asked me, his eyes were wide in disbelief.

"I don't know—"I paused, I didn't know what to say, I just watched unable to take my eyes off of the beast of a man in the chair.

With the cloth back in place, the man hit the lever once again. Anthony's body jerked up against the restraints as the electricity continued to flow through him. He started to convulse wildly again. How the hell is he still breathing?

His face, again, unveiled. Smoke poured from his ears and nose. I swear for a moment I saw Anthony's eyes turn a burning red like I had seen in my vision with Beth. It had to have been the smoke adding to the effect, because that black aura was around him just as I had seen him that night.

Sparks began shooting out of his body. I could see the electricity lighting up his face, his eyes still locked in our direction. I couldn't tell if it was him or his insides frying, but an ungodly sound came from that chair.

His eyes burst, shooting blue and orange flames out the sockets and up his forehead leaving a trail of black, burned skin, his flesh melting away. His body convulsed again, one last twitch, he then stopped like he was frozen in time.

The man slammed the lever to the off position. Anthony's body fell lifeless. I saw a black mass come out of him, shoot across the room and appear to pass into Harrington.

He instantly fell to the ground, but only for a second.

"What the fuck just happened?" I asked him franticly as he came to.

"Sorry man, it was too much for me. I must have lost it for a second." He managed to smile.

"You didn't see that black mass fly across the room?" I asked him, as my heart raced.

"You must be seeing shit, it's all over man he's dead." He pointed to Anthony's steaming body.

"Call it in, 10:23am. He's dead." I heard a voice from across the room.

I couldn't shake what I just witnessed. I had to leave. I got up and pounded on the door; the guard on the other side opened it and escorted me out.

I went back to my car, got in and waited for Harrington to come back out. He wasn't far behind me.

He got in and we drove off. All I know is that I need to get the hell out of here and forget the name Anthony Smith, and put this all behind me. We got back to the station and I clocked out early. I needed to go home and be alone. Something seemed different about Harrington. I couldn't tell if it was because of the trauma of the whole ordeal or what, I couldn't clinch it.

Something just wasn't right and I feared the worst.

#  Chapter 12

When I got home I went straight to the fridge and picked out a bottle that had been sitting for months. I needed a drink. I didn't even bother to grab a glass; I just drank straight from the bottle.

Something was not right in my head and I didn't understand it. Why was I the only one seeing all these strange visions, or were they just hallucinations?

I took another drink from the bottle. It burned my throat as it slid down. This was good whiskey.

I sat down in my chair and turned the TV on. I wasn't surprised at all to see the news covering the events of the day.

I took another drink from the bottle the effects of the alcohol hit me instantly. My eyes became heavy as the world around me became hazy.

I didn't understand how Harrington drinks like this

nightly. I have not been drunk in months and it hit me hard.

I took three more big swigs as I watched the television and that was all I could handle. I had to fight to keep my eyes open now. I didn't resist for long.

I don't know how long I was out, but I was awakened suddenly by a loud knock on my door. I got up still dazed and stumbled over to see who was there.

I reached out and grabbed the doorknob and opened it to see Harrington standing there smiling. I didn't know if it was the whiskey or what, but I had seen that smile before.

He asked "Are you going to let me in, Damien?"

"Yeah, come on in." I said, my speech slurred.

He walked in and we sat down.

"What are you doing here Harrington?" I asked.

"I thought you would like some company, Damien. It looks like you started the party without me." He smelled the whiskey on my breath.

The hair on my arms stood on end, I felt a chill

come over me when he entered the room.

Something was wrong here.

Harrington paralyzed me as his eyes locked into mine. "You know Anthony was not a murderer. He didn't commit any of those crimes."

I felt panicked, "What the hell are you talking about Harrington?"

He just smiled Anthony's smile.

Harrington jumped up and said "I allowed you to see me for who I really am, Damien. I told you I would be seeing you soon."

My mind was flooded now. Panic and fear overtook me. My heart pumped blood throughout my body faster and faster. I couldn't move it was like I was frozen from fear.

Harrington reached into his pocket put gloves on as he walked to the table behind me.

"What the fuck are you!? Why are you doing this to me?"

"You already know the answer to that Damien. I am eternal. I am death himself." He reached down to my gun holster on the table.

"This can't be real! I'm going fucking crazy!" I

shout out as if I was trying to wake myself up from some wild dream.

Harrington pulled the gun out and checked the chamber.

"Yes Damien, you are going fucking crazy. You know it, I know it, and even your boss knows it. That's why you're going to take your own life, tonight with your gun."

"Fuck you Jack, Anthony, whoever you are. Fuck you!" I tried to move. I was totally paralyzed by some unseen force.

Harrington walked back over to me, gun in hand. "Anthony let me in when he sold his soul for his small fortune. Jack let me in with all his rage and depression. I needed a new body Damien. And since you were so fucking persistent with the truth, this is your reward. I am Abaddon; your kind has many names for me, demon, devil, angel of death."

Stephanie was right, there was evil inside Anthony, possessing him. I helped to let it out and I was next. I felt a static electric feeling run down my back. I didn't need to look back, I knew it was Beth. Everything made sense now. The visions were real and Beth was trying to warn me.

Harrington crouched down by me and forced me to grip the gun. I began to breathe heavily. I couldn't resist that unseen force. I put the gun into my mouth as tears fell from my eyes. There was a moment of silence.

I was forced to pull the trigger sending two bullets tearing through my brain exiting the back of my skull. There was intense ringing in my ears momentarily and I could see the blood spewing out of the bullet holes. Beth reached her hands out to me and smiled. The fear was gone I knew that I was going to die, so I reached my hands out to her.

The pain all went away the moment I touched her hands. I looked back and realized that I was no longer in my body. I knew there was nothing more I could do. I take Beth's hand once more and embrace my destiny on the other side.

Harrington reached for his phone and calls 911.

"Hello. I need an ambulance right away, my partner has committed suicide. Please hurry, he was drunk, said he was going crazy and couldn't deal with what happened with the Anthony Smith case and he shot himself right in front of me."

Harrington hangs up the phone and sits back at the table and starts to stare off into space.

# Acknowledgments

First I would like to thank the readers. This is my first book and I really want to Say thank you for taking the time to read this. It means a lot to me.

Thank you so much Tiff for editing my book and helping me with expanding my idea and making my story even better.

I would also like to thank my parents Mike and

Michelle.

Thank you mom for reading chapter at a time as I

wrote this and doing what you could to help me out!

Huge props to my brother Jereme a.k.a Joe and

Brittney Droege for helping me with the cover images.

Brett Droege lives in Beatrice, Nebraska and was born on January 19th 1984. He enjoys horror movies, video games and fishing. This is his first book.

