 
The Librarian & The Cupcake

A Demonridden Novella

by

Anna Wolfe

* * * * *

Smashwords Edition

Copyright 2014 by Anna Wolfe

Discover other titles at Anna Wolfe's Smashwords Page

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

The contents of this novel reflect the work and views of the author. The contents do not reflect the views of any other person or institution.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Preface

Chapter 1: Robert Davies

Chapter 2: Glenn Helms

Chapter 3: Robert

Chapter 4: Glenn

Chapter 5: Glenn

Chapter 6: Robert

Chapter 7: Glenn

Chapter 8: Robert

Chapter 9: Glenn

Chapter 10: Glenn

Chapter 11: Glenn

Chapter 12: Robert

About the Author

Sample Chapter from Book 4 of "The One Rises"

***

####  Preface

First, let's deal with the technical stuff. I denote thoughts by using italics. If, in the process of downloading this book, that formatting gets lost, you're going to be very confused. I've had some folks have difficulty with the formatting so below is a "test" italic sentence.

Is this sentence in italics? If so, yay! If not, something has gone awry.

Second, this novella is set in the same world as Bitten, Addicted, and Ensnared By Magic. The characters in this story, however, do not appear in the "One Rises" series. I've tried to write it assuming my audience hasn't read the other stuff (and there's a little background blurb below), but I didn't spend a lot of time world-building. If you like what you read, definitely check out my other work!

The blurb: Through acts of will, human beings can pull creatures from another world into our own. These creatures ride human bodies and possess wide-ranging sets of abilities. The demonridden are powerful, greedy, and always hungry. The only limit on their appetites is a magical document (called the Covenant) that the witches forced on the demonridden to end the Great Demon War.

A human that has been bitten by a demonridden (and survives) develops their own demon-forced sets of abilities and appetites. Like their more powerful creators, the bitten mostly feed on human emotion: blood, sex, anger, fear, greed, joy, and so on. Some bitten serve their creators and others flee from the demonridden that created them. Amongst the bitten who refuse to serve in the demonridden's courts, there are two major factions in North America: the Chosen and the free bitten. The Chosen are led by a man named Phaedon Papadapolous and reject the parts of the Covenant that forbid them to hunt and kill the demonridden. The free bitten are more loosely organized and believe that Covenant must be upheld.

***

####  Chapter 1: Robert Davies

There was an insistent tapping at his bedroom door, which then opened without his assistance. A tall, thin black man in a pink polo shirt, a newsboy cap, and striped cotton pants stepped into the room. "Your, uh, landlord let me in." The tall man closed the door behind him, eyes searching the room intently. As he set his bag and jacket on the only bed in the room, he said, "Well, I'll tell you right now, I kick."

"I'm sorry, who are you?" Robert asked. Please tell me you aren't the guy Silas sent me.

"Glenn Helms." The pink-shirted man sat down on the bed and crossed his legs. "Silas said you'd be expecting me."

"Ah. I see." Robert pulled out his phone. The man, Glenn, started to say something, but Robert held up one hand up to silence him. "Silas? I have a guest."

"Glenn?" Silas asked. Robert could hear the rustling of paper in the background.

"That's what he says. Looks like he got dressed in the dark?" Robert cut a look at Glenn as he said this. Glenn looked mildly offended.

"Correct. Ask him what the first thing he ever said to me was."

"You don't have to ask. The volume on your phone is ridiculously high and I'm not deaf." Glenn rolled his eyes and then flipped his hand over so he could look at his nails. "Let me think... oh yes, I remember. I believe it was: get out of the way, boy!" For the last words, Glenn deepened his voice and made a ferocious face.

Silas was silent on the phone for a long while, almost a full minute, before he said, "Also correct."

That pause was way too long. That's not the answer Silas was expecting. "You just turned the heat up on this little project and you sent me someone new. Is that wise?" Robert turned to face Glenn.

"He brings something particular to the table," Silas said, his voice suddenly sounding sharp and focused. The rustling of papers stopped.

"Anything in particular I should do with him?" Robert asked the question though he expected Silas to be vague.

"It's a simple matter. I'm sure you can handle it." The annoyed edge in Silas' voice was fake, but the coded message wasn't. No dead bodies. Not really a surprise.

"I see. Anything else I need to know?" Robert looked over at Glenn and suppressed a sigh at the dayglo colors.

Silas rumbled in a low, amused voice, "He kicks."

Glenn grinned.

As he hung up the phone, Robert held up a warning finger. "If you kick me, I will cuff your ankles to the end of the bed."

"Kinky." Glenn closed his hands together and set them on his knee. "So, what am I doing here?"

"I don't know. What can you do?" Robert tried not to frown and failed.

"What can you do?" Glenn shrugged and gave Robert a wide-eyed innocent look.

Robert growled a curse word under his breath. He sounds like he wants to play a game. That kind of nonsense is one of the many things I do not miss from my time in Mordecai's court. "This," Robert motioned back and forth between them with one finger, "is what I call a Silas side project. Everybody gets one sooner or later; some people get more than one. I can already tell this is your first time at the rodeo, but I can guess what happened. You got a phone call from Silas and he told you to go some place, do what I tell you, and then go home."

"You do this a lot?" Glenn pursed his lips and gave Robert a head to toe look.

Robert shrugged. "I've got a particular skill set."

"I'll bet you do." Glenn said this coquettishly, but he was also frowning as he spoke.

"And I have a particular task to complete and Silas sent you with something in mind. The problem is that I don't know what. Now, I'm going to ask you questions and you're going to answer them. If that's a problem, there's the door."

"Personal questions or professional ones?" Glenn now looked slightly bored, which was as good as waving a red flag and screaming I-used-to-be-a-pet at the top of his lungs.

"Both." Robert replied as the early stages of a game began to play out. Fine. He wants to play, let's play. He'll figure out that the game doesn't mean much when there's nothing actually riding on the outcome.

"And are you going to answer my questions?" Glenn had his nose up in the air now, and managed to look bored and curious at the same time.

Robert smiled and sat down at the computer on the desk in the room. He moved through several camera images quickly, jotting down in a notebook that Mr. White was returning from the gym. "The professional questions I'll answer when I can. Some things I don't tell you until I know better." Robert turned and gave Glenn an up-and-down flick of the eyes. "A lot better."

"And the personal?" Glenn replied as he got up to stand behind Robert.

"At the end of this little exchange, I'll answer any two questions you end up asking."

"Four. And it's my choice on the questions." Glenn tipped forward a little to get a look at the computer screen. "Go back one."

Robert flipped back to the previous camera angle. "Three and you get your choice on one of the questions." Robert could see Glenn's outline in the computer screen and hear a smile in his voice. He hasn't been out of a court for long. He still misses the game. Bloody ex-pets. Silas, what am I supposed to do with him?

"Your answers have to be as complete and detailed as mine and I get my choice on two." Glenn tapped one of the screens. "You've got a blind spot here."

"I needed to conceal the camera. We have a deal. Should we shed blood on it or is my word good enough?" Robert turned enough to extend his hand. How paranoid are you, Glenn?

"Your word will do." Glenn took his hand and they pumped hands twice.

Glenn backed away and stretched out on the bed with a wiggle. "Feels just like therapy. So, are you going to tell me your name before we start or is that a 'personal' question." Glenn made rabbit ear motions with his fingers and delicately sneered the word.

"The name's Robert." Robert said this gruffly, as if giving up the information annoyed him.

Glenn was silent for a moment. "Well, what do you want to know, Robert?" He drew out the name in a slow, slightly mocking tone.

"Not so quick on the draw, are you pet?" Robert rotated in his chair and smirked at Glenn.

The look the man shot him was venomous. "I'm not a pet, not anymore. And I help people feel comfortable with their decisions."

"I'm going to need more than that." Robert tapped his fingers on his knee impatiently.

Glenn sighed dramatically. "I can't change people's minds. But my ability, well, once someone makes a decision, I can make sure they don't change it back. Understand?"

"That's it?" Robert said with a frown. What the hell do I do with that?

Glenn rolled over onto his side, propped his head up with one hand, and smiled. "That's it."

Robert tapped his fingers and tried to think. That's such a specific ability. "Whose court were you in?"

"Harley's." He flopped back over onto his back. "Though I don't see what that's got to do with anything."

"How long have you been out?" Robert asked.

Glenn was quiet for about thirty seconds before he said slowly, "Sixteen months."

"And what did you do for Harley?" I need to protect the Whites from Vince Grady and get them to stop hemorrhaging money on a private investigator and all I've got is a guy who makes sure people don't change their mind. Hmm, okay, actually I can think of a few things I could do with that.

"What does this have to do with anything? Is this personal or professional?" Glenn made an annoyed huffing sound with his lips.

"It's both and I still don't see what the hell I'm supposed to do with you." Robert leaned back and crossed one leg over the other.

Glenn let out a long-suffering sigh. "People make all kinds of decisions in Vegas that they might decide to try and back out of a little later. Like when they go home. I made sure that didn't happen."

"Ah." Silas is expecting to explain this situation to someone. The Witches Council maybe, or someone he wants on his side. Bugger it, I hate politics. "Come on."

Glenn gave Robert a slow, head-to-toe perusal and then pursed his lips. "Where are we going?"

"To a meeting. And I'm already running late."

***

####  Chapter 2: Glenn Helms

Glenn stopped himself from jiggling his leg. Robert had been less than forthcoming with the information and Glenn still didn't know what the hell was going on. Though anything is better than that suburban subdivision of hell Silas has me living in. Glenn looked the Englishman up and down and had to stop himself from rolling his eyes. The guy looks like a librarian. Robert was maybe 5'8", soft around the middle, and wearing a button down and khakis that were too large for him. The pale skin, short frizzy brown hair, and watery blue eyes completed the librarian look. Snore. "God, did your mother dress you? You look like an insurance salesman."

"At least I don't glow in the dark," Robert replied in a bored, lazy sounding drawl.

Glenn bit back a grin. God, I have missed the game. "Or a librarian. You could be a librarian."

"Here's the fellow now," Robert said with the faintest hint of an English accent. He motioned with his eyes at a plump, doughy man wearing jeans, a t-shirt, and a ratty navy blue coat.

"This guy?" Glenn frowned doubtfully at the man, his sleek ponytail and beaky nose not inspiring any confidence. The eyes, though, were distinctive. Cop. Glenn eyed the man over again, re-assessing his opinion. A cop who doesn't give a fuck. A cop on the take. An asshole of the highest order.

"Who's the cupcake?" the cop asked as he sat, slumping into the chair and motioning at Glenn with his chin.

Yep. Total asshole. Glenn thought and shot the cop a nasty look.

"That's Glenn. He's new."

The English accent was suddenly so thick that Glenn almost did a double take. Instead, he made himself smile tightly.

"Yeah? Welcome aboard, cupcake." The cop held his hand out with a sly, biting smile.

Glenn looked down at the preferred hand and rolled his eyes. "I don't touch pigs."

The cop dropped his hand and the grin widened. He shifted his gaze to Robert. "What court's he from?"

How the hell do people keep figuring that out?! Amongst the bitten that comprised the courts surrounding every powerful demonridden, information was power. It was the basis of the game. And yet somehow, out here in the free territories, I keep giving information away. It's so irritating and it could get me killed. Glenn shot a glance at Robert to see what he would do. Robert plays the game like he spent time in a court. I wonder whose pet he used to be.

Robert grinned and shrugged. "You both have lips. Ask him yourself."

The cop chortled. "Maybe I will. Though I can think of better uses for lips." At this the cop shot Glenn a predatory glance.

And that could mean anything. Does he feed on sex? Anger? Fear? Was that a threat or a come on? Or both? Glenn flicked his eyebrows up disdainfully and kept his mouth shut.

"So, Robbie, what do you need?" The cop whistled sharply and barked out in the direction of the barista, "Hey, drug addict, bring me a fucking cup of coffee!"

"I need you to talk to my friends." Robert lifted his eyebrows and took a delicate sip of coffee.

Glenn looked over at Robert and lifted an eyebrow. Laying that accent on a little thick, aren't you?

"Oh yeah? What about?" The cop leaned back so the teenaged barista could set the coffee in front of him.

"Oh, you're welcome, sir," the barista said with a polite smile.

The cop didn't even look at him. He just made an impatient "go-on" motion with his hand at Robert. The barista smiled and nodded before walking away.

"They need a new private investigator. One who works on commission." Robert made a slow up and down motion at himself with one hand. "Are you in charge of the case yet?"

"Got it last week. It's gonna do wonders for my stats," the cop muttered. "So, what, you just want me to call 'em up or something?"

Robert shrugged. "I don't care how you do it."

"Oh for god's sake," Glenn exclaimed before he could stop himself. Still, now I'm committed to the move. "You can't seriously expect anybody to just follow this guy's word." He jerked his head at the cop. "Not anybody with a brain, anyhow. Do these people have brains?"

Robert tipped his head to one side and then nodded slowly.

"It's kinda what I do, cupcake." The cop tipped his cup mockingly in Glenn's direction.

"Can you persuade people, pig? I'm guessing you can't. You get them to hear what they want to hear, don't you?" Glenn didn't wait for the cop to answer the question. It was already clear as day. Then he took a wild stab into the dark. "How did your friendly blue uniformed brethren treat these people when whatever heinous thing that happened to them first happened?" Glenn crossed his arms and lifted his eyebrows.

The cop shrugged. "Same way they treat everybody else."

"Ah. Okay. So, assumed they were the problem first and looked around for another answer second? And this involved us, didn't it? So the real answer wasn't even available. Cops take that sort of thing so well." Glenn turned and looked at Robert. "Is this how you handle your side projects?"

Robert pursed his lips. "I just need an in. I am quite persuasive." He emphasized the word 'I' in a way that made it sound slightly suggestive.

Glenn gazed upwards for a moment. "Amateurs. Do we know what they think really happened?"

Robert was now staring at Glenn with eyebrows that had climbed all the way up his forehead. "We do."

The cop sipped his coffee. "How about I go in, grin my little grin, and hand over Robbie's card. Maybe mine too, for the missus." The cop grinned. "Just in case she likes the sound of that. This isn't court, cupcake."

"I see." Disappointment spread in his chest like liquid lead. I miss court. At least there I knew what I was supposed to do. He took a sip of his espresso to cover the lump in his throat. For the last sixteen months, he'd lived the least risky, most stable, easiest life he'd ever had. And I'm bored to tears. It turns out hustling people doesn't have an off switch though I have tried.

Robert tipped his head to one side doubtfully. "Silas made it clear he wants this handled... delicately. Let's do this Glenn's way."

The cop groaned. "Fine. Go on, cupcake. Enlighten me with your wisdom."

Surprise skipped down his spine and Glenn made a show of considering the rest of his plan to hide his happiness. "Do they already have a PI?"

"Yeah." The cop nodded. "She's okay, but she's expensive."

"Okay," Glenn nodded, thinking about the home he'd seen looking at the computer screen. Lots of books and art. Well-framed art. So, lots of education and some disposable income. Comfortable furniture. A kitchen they cook in. Fussy about their space but practical too. There was a whole basement full of boxes. They've downsized recently and not very comfortably. They probably don't like the new place. "Give me a day to look over what information we have and we'll call you with specifics." He looked the cop up and down slowly and then sighed. "But whatever the details, you're going to treat these people with respect. You'll meet with them when and where they want. Like you have manners and give a shit. And then you'll have to pitch yourself as someone who agrees that something is wrong with the case. Think you can handle something like that?"

The cop made a snoring sound and then jolted himself awake. "This is pointless, but we can do whatever you want, cupcake."

Glenn looked at Robert. "Do you have a website?"

Robert nodded. "I haven't updated it in a while."

"Fine. That can get taken care of today or tomorrow. Business card?" Glenn made a give-it-to-me motion with one hand. Robert reached into his back pocket and pulled out a thin, expensive wallet. He plucked a business card free. Glenn eyed it critically, decided it was acceptable, and then dropped it in the cop's coffee.

"That was just uncalled for," the cop growled as he fished out the card. He flicked coffee off the card at Glenn.

Glenn dabbed at the droplets of coffee with a napkin and made sure to give an irritated huff. "Make it look beat up when you give it to them." Glenn pointed at the card. "And pig, you will talk to these people like you respect them. On the off chance they're actually as smart as they think they are, they'll trust their instincts. There are limits to our abilities. Let's not find yours."

"I hate ex-pets," the cop grumbled. "Such bossy little bitches." He glared at Robert. "We done?"

Robert nodded. "I'll be sure and let Silas know how cooperative you've been."

"You do that, Robbie." The cop stood and grinned at Glenn. "Cupcake." He turned and walked away.

Glenn suppressed the snarl on his lips and smiled instead. "Have a nice day, pig."

Robert was looking Glenn over with eyes that suddenly looked hard and calculating. "Well, I think I have a better idea of what Silas had in mind after that little display. Why did you leave Harley's court?"

Glenn sucked in his breath and only just managed to restrain punching Robert in the face. Instead, he took another sip of espresso and glared daggers at the other man over the edge of the cup. "You better believe I will ask you that question in return, motherfucker."

"This is a professional question," Robert said, a smug, toothy smile spreading across his face. His response told Glenn nothing about whether his guess that Robert used to be pet was correct.

Glenn opened his mouth and then closed it, surprised by a frisson of arousal sliding down his spine. At court, one didn't feed on other bitten. Not in public at least. Behind closed doors was another matter entirely. Still, it was disconcerting to realize that the pleasure of the game made the little librarian much more appealing than was appropriate. "Go fuck yourself, librarian."

"It would help me achieve my goals if I could trust you with a bit more information. To do that, I need to know more about who you are. There's no more revealing a tale than how you came to leave court. Pets don't tend to do that. The question remains professional." Robert shrugged and held his hands open in front of him. "But, if you don't want to tell me, I can't make you. We can be done, if that's what you prefer." His predatory smile melted into something a little smugger.

He knows I'm bored. One damn the man. I'm out of court for almost two years and I'm rustier than a bent nail after a thunderstorm. "Let's take a walk."

The two of them walked to the car and Glenn struggled to find the parts of the events that led to his leaving that he was willing to share. Glenn didn't start speaking until they were in the car. Robert didn't put the keys in the ignition; he just looked forward and frowned.

"You know who Moe is." Glenn made the question a statement. Every bitten in the North American Free Territories knew the name of Harley's right hand man. At the moment, Harley was the only demonridden with any kind of real territory in the NAFT. She had a hold on most of southern Nevada, Las Vegas included, and was within hundreds of miles of an Elder demonridden's territory. For a baby demonridden, only a few centuries old, Harley's territory was quite large.

Robert just cut Glenn a look. "Yeah."

With a shrug, Glenn continued, "I got promoted. I..." He stopped and tried to think about how to phrase it. "I dealt with matters Moe didn't want to."

"You kill people?" Robert asked bluntly.

Glenn inhaled slowly. "When it was necessary. Too many bodies cause problems and Harley doesn't like problems." He paused again. "Harley always has favorites. She adds decades to their lives and they don't age. Moe has been one of her favorites for nearly a century and a half. But." Glenn stopped. It's not really dangerous to say this anymore. "It may be that he is falling out of favor." Glenn shrugged and hedged his bets. "It's hard to tell. Harley has games within games. But Moe isn't taking this little phase of their relationship well."

"Okay," Robert said neutrally, his eyes still facing front.

"You know what he does?" Glenn said and tried to control his fear. He wasn't willing to shift into the breathing exercises he'd been learning. It would too clearly signal his feelings and make Robert think he was weak.

Robert nodded.

"Well, he did that to me." Made me need him like I need air. I'd have done anything, begged to do anything he wanted. I would have crawled across glass to suck his dick. Glenn flexed his jaw and kept those words to himself. It took very little to bring the memories back and Glenn was done being a victim. "And then he wouldn't touch me. Ordered me away and it wasn't until I screamed myself sick in the lobby that he told me I could stop..." Needing him. Even now, he couldn't say the words. The fear and shame hovered at the edges of his mind and he could hear his breath getting ragged.

"Moe has done that before, to pets at court." Robert turned his face slightly, as if to make eye contact, and Glenn purposefully avoided his gaze.

"To humans as well. He's a sick fuck. Winding up the pets who displease him just to watch them suffer..." Glenn trailed off as his heart rate picked up. Fuck it. He let his breathing settle into Otter in the Sun. "Moe does it to piss off Harley and he's been wanting to piss her off an awful lot. I kissed ass for a couple of days and then took off. I notified the Witches Council as soon as I made it outside the city limits."

"Would you go back?" Robert asked.

Glenn flared his nostrils. "That's a stupid question. Name one pet that went back and lived more than a year. I like living. That's why I left." Glenn rotated in his seat until he faced Robert. "Are you going to tell me what the fuck is going on now or would you like to ask more inappropriate personal questions masquerading as professional ones?"

"I have one more professional question, for now anyway. What kind of blood contract did you sign?" Robert tapped the steering wheel with one finger.

"The basic kind. I wasn't that important, but I promised I'd keep the secrets of Harley's court. I can talk about my own experiences, but not as long as they upset her position amongst the demonridden. That's all Harley really cares about. She's got ambition."

Robert started the car. "About a year and a half ago, the Whites' daughter was bitten by a baby demonridden. They don't know that, of course. The demonridden who did it was riding around in their little girl's friend. Before it died, the demonridden killed six boys, including Jasper White, Callie's brother. Callie's one of Silas', one of us, now. I'm making sure the fallout doesn't compromise us." Robert fell silent and then leaned forward and started the car.

"That had better not be the end," Glenn finally said.

"It's not." Robert's mouth curved up into a grim smile.

***

####  Chapter 3: Robert

Robert made his eyes scan over the page at a reasonable pace and flipped when it seemed appropriate. He hoped his play-acting was fooling Glenn. Watching Glenn verbally eviscerate the cop, Paul Lachler, had actually been fun and that had been all it took to stir his hunger. I let it go too long. Being on a solo stakeout had its disadvantages, especially when feeding too close to home could cause problems. Maybe I can leave Glenn on watch tonight. Robert stopped himself from shooting a glance over at Glenn. He isn't going to be interested in feeding. He hasn't been out of court long enough to sort out that there's nothing wrong with the bitten feeding on one another. Even as he thought it, Robert knew that wasn't quite right.

The taboo amongst the pets was so strong that many ex-pets never got over it. And no wonder, when they betray and manipulate each other without the slightest hesitation. Glenn had left quite a bit out of his story about leaving Harley's court, but Robert couldn't really blame him. How do you trust anyone again after something like that? Though he seems to have decided to trust Silas. Or maybe he just didn't have a choice.

Robert intellectually understood why pets felt the way they did about feeding off of one another, though he didn't really get it. The rules in Mordecai's court had been different. The Elder demonridden had encouraged them to feed off one another as long as there was sex involved. And when Mordecai was angry or happy or bored whatever room he happened to be in erupted into an orgy. Robert had never been so full or sexually sated as the years he spent as one of Mordecai's pets. After that, humans are delicious, but I'm hungry an hour later. Like candy. Bugger, I'm need food.

For the last hour, Glenn had been clicking through the Whites' financial records. Glenn had barely asked any questions as Robert outlined the basics about the Whites' situation. There were some details he kept back, but he filled Glenn as best he could. Frankly, he'd expected the other man to ask more questions. Instead, Glenn frowned and demanded access to paperwork.

"Are these people for real?" Glenn shook his head and rolled the chair away from the desk.

"As far as I can tell." Robert set the book down on his chest.

"These taxes are so perfect I want to puke." Glenn folded his arms and crossed his legs. He gave Robert a slow perusal. "I have a professional question."

Robert lifted his eyebrows. "Yes?"

"What do you do? You want me to come up with a plan, that's information I need." Glenn folded his hands over his knees.

Robert nodded and then considered how he wanted to phrase his reply. "When people look at me, they see someone who isn't threatening, someone they can trust."

"That's it?" Glenn tilted his head to one side.

The things a well-trained killer can do with that are too numerous too count. "That's it."

"Huh." Glenn tapped his fingers against his knee. "And this security guard..." He began and then trailed off.

Robert shook his head. "He was head of security for a private and expensive psychiatric facility. He was more than a guard."

"That's the problem. Why did this girl end up at New Vistas? She should've been in prison or a real high security mental institution. This place was a joke. And why is this guy stalking the Whites?" Glenn stood and began to pace. It wasn't a big room and he could cross it in two steps.

Robert found himself watching the smooth play of Glenn's muscles and hunger twisted in his belly. He cleared his throat and found his voice. "Grady got fired after he let an unstable murderer escape. Maybe he thinks finding Callie White will undo some of the damage."

"Maybe. Or maybe one of us is messing around with his head." Glenn continued pacing.

Yeah, that's what we're worried about. He swung up into a seated position and put his book down. "I considered that. He was here well before I got here so someone could have been scrambling his brains. Whoever it is, they're not providing him with cash and he's been freefalling. You should see the shithole he lives in now."

Glenn grunted and said nothing.

The pacing was starting to be annoying. Getting to his feet, Robert said, "Let me show you how to keep records on what the Whites are doing. I need to go out for a couple of hours."

"Going to leave me in charge? I've been here less than a day." Glenn shook his head in disapproval as he stopped moving.

"If Silas didn't want me to use you, he wouldn't have sent you. And I'm hungry." Robert said the words flatly and knew Glenn would take the admission as a sign of weakness. Pets were predictable that way.

"And how do you feed, librarian?" Glenn's mouth curled into an amused smile. "I hope it's not sex. You're never going to get laid looking like that."

"How do you, cupcake?" Robert growled back. Even though what Glenn saw likely had little bearing on his actual looks, the insult stung.

"Is that a personal or professional question?" The lanky man licked his lips as he asked the question.

"The rules of a game aren't the same on the outside, Glenn." Robert used the other man's real name in a vain attempt to get Glenn to do the same. I think librarian is going to stick. God damn it.

Glenn's smile broadened at the acknowledgement they were in a game.

As if acknowledging it means anything. "I'll be back when I'm back. You have my number. Call me if you seen anything out of place. Anything at all. Got it?"

Glenn made a dismissive motion with the fingertips of one hand. "Have fun, librarian. I'll keep your little charges safe. Probably."

"Cupcake, it'll be Silas you'll answer to if something happens, not me. I don't give a shit about these people." Robert shrugged into his coat and picked up his keys. He didn't bother to see if his warning had landed on fertile ground. If Glenn wasn't afraid of Silas, there wasn't anything Robert could do to help the ex-pet.

Once he was in the car, Robert realized he didn't know where he wanted to go. As hungry as he was, the effort of picking up a human at a bar sounded exhausting. He drummed his fingers against the steering wheel. Men or women? There were a couple of bars where it was easy enough to pick men up, but Robert was hesitant to frequent any place too often. Even with a face like his, people would start to remember and, worse, gossip. His hunger often steered him to a woman in the mood for a one night stand, but... I don't want a woman tonight.

He pulled his phone out of his pocket and stared at it. He'd fed off a human a few weeks ago. The kid had slipped his phone number into Robert's cell. Robert hadn't seen him do it and had been impressed the kid had managed to be so sly. As a general rule, though, he tried not to sleep with humans more than once. The nosy little buggers just couldn't seem to stop themselves from sticking their nose where it didn't belong. I wonder how difficult it would be to seduce Glenn. Robert pushed the thought away in annoyance. Getting embroiled with a wet behind the ears ex-pet was definitely a less good plan than sleeping with a human twice. He dialed the number as he started the car.

***

####  Chapter 4: Glenn

"Did you have a nice dinner?" Glenn asked in a sweetly venomous voice as Robert opened the door.

Robert ignored the question and dropped heavily into the desk chair. He flipped the desk lamp on and skimmed one finger down the paper. "You sort out a plan?" The little librarian asked the question absently and as if he already knew the answer was no.

"You want to talk about this now?" Glenn's voice rose incredulously as he sat up in the bed. "It's three o'clock in the morning."

"You're obviously up." Robert frowned at him and then went back to looking at the computer. Glenn could see that he was looking at video clips from his time away in fast-forward.

"Fine." Glenn swung his legs over the edge of the bed.

Robert turned his head and fixed his gaze on Glenn's legs.

"Am I making you uncomfortable?" Glenn sneered the question, but worried that he couldn't read the other man's face. He gave Robert a narrow eyed glare. Is this really what he looks like?

"What?" Robert's gaze moved up to Glenn's face and an amused smile lit up his face. "No. Just wondering if your boxers were dayglo too."

Glenn remained silent, only lifting his eyebrows. "These people aren't going to take anything for free."

"People always take free things." Robert said it with shrug and went back to watching the video.

Glenn snapped his fingers in annoyance. "Have you even read their file? These people do not take things for free. Not even with your mojo. We'll do better if we let them believe they're going to pay us something. If we let them poke around, research us, figure out we're legit on their own." Glenn hoped Robert didn't notice the way the 'we' had slipped into his language. This is the most fun I've had in ages. "Librarian!"

Robert looked over at him and made an irritated hissing sound. "People trust me, cupcake. The Whites will too."

"They've been thinking about how to make sure their retirement is comfortable since their mid-twenties. These are long-term thinkers and mistrustful ones at that. He's been working for the Legal Aid Society for thirty years. She's a professor at Carleton and, I shit you not, almost medalled at the Olympics twice. Once in 1976 and again in 1980." Glenn resisted the urge to get up and pace. The room was much too small.

Robert shrugged. "I know all that. So?"

"Are you fucking with me? If he didn't smoke weed, I'd think they were robots. I'm still not convinced she isn't. If we were running a con, I'd be looking for new targets." Glenn shook his head. "You can work over people like that, but it's rarely worth the effort."

"We don't need to con them. I'll be figuring out what happened to their daughter. I'm just not going to tell them what I find." Robert narrowed his eyes at the screen and slowed the video down to a regular tempo. "Who's on the phone, when Mrs. White answers at 11:43?"

Glenn's hands fisted into knots before he could stop himself. He made himself relax them before Robert noticed. "The person hung up."

Robert suddenly looked like he'd swallowed a lemon. Robert's fingers flew over the keyboard.

"What?" Glenn asked and then cursed himself for getting off track.

"Grady's stepping up the harassment." Robert glared at the computer screen.

"You have a camera on his place too? Librarian, you're a total pervert."

The look Robert shot him was so wicked that Glenn's eyebrows jumped up in surprise. The expression was gone almost as soon as it appeared. "Of course there are cameras in his place, but the guy's barely ever home. He sleeps in his car most nights. I cloned his phone one night while he was passed out." Robert tapped the desk. "Grady made the call." He leaned back in the chair and rested his hands behind his head. "Okay, cupcake, tell me your fancy plan."

Glenn sighed and ran a hand over his head. "Well, first, the pig should call them at home and chances are, they'll set up a meeting quick, so your website needs to be ready to go. You know anybody good with computers? If you could pop up here or there in a google search, that would be even better. Do you actually have a private investigators license in Minnesota?"

"Not in this state, but I do in a few others." A small, amused smiled flickered across the librarian's face. "And I can do the computer stuff."

"Get a license here. A real one, if you can. Can you?" When Robert nodded, Glenn continued, "I'll coach the pig on how to interact with the Whites. The pig is not going to be happy."

Robert was grinning from ear to ear.

"What?" Glenn asked, finally looking Robert in the face.

Robert shrugged one shoulder. "It seems a bit over the top, but I'm willing to play along. You have any brilliant thoughts on how to deal with Grady?"

"I think direct is the best option," Glenn said.

"That doesn't seem to be what Silas wants," Robert said slowly.

Glenn shrugged. "I've looked the guy's file over. He's not going to be a tough nut to crack and I can make sure he'll keep his promises. If someone got there before us," Glenn shrugged, "my ability won't work and then we'll know something. Don't worry, librarian, I can rough him up for you."

"That won't be necessary." The smile that carved open Robert's face suggested he was looking forward to a little violence.

The arousal that flared low in Glenn's belly was startling, and it stirred a hunger he preferred to ignore. I didn't feed on sex in Harley's court and I'm not about to start now that I'm out. It was irritating that he felt a little disappointed when Robert began making a bed on the floor.

***

####  Chapter 5: Glenn

The next day, they entered the security guard's run down building. Four stories tall and facing a busy street, it had once been nice. Now the brick was cracked and dirty. The inside wasn't much better with a grimy brown carpet and a painted wooden staircase that had been stained by the oils in hundreds of people's hands.

"Nice." Glenn looked around and flicked his fingers dismissively.

"Grady's apartment is worse. The guy showers twice a week. Maybe." Robert headed up the stairs at a brisk pace. He stopped at the top of the stairs and looked down at Glenn. "And all I have to do is get him to say he'll cooperate? He doesn't have to mean it?"

Glenn shook his head. "He needs to mean it in the moment. All I need is a moment and he'll keep his promise."

Robert's eyebrows lifted and he tilted his head to one side. "That's pretty impressive, Cupcake."

"And here I thought it wasn't much of anything," Glenn said acidly.

"I changed my mind. That's allowed, isn't it?" Robert shot him a half grin.

Glenn motioned down the hallway. "Which one is this guy's place?"

"Last door on the left." Robert stopped in front of the correct door and looked over at Glenn. "Ready?" He didn't wait for a reply. In a surprisingly athletic move, Robert kicked the door in.

Glenn had to scramble to stay close behind. He shut the door behind him firmly and pulled a wooden wedge out of his jacket. Shoving it under the door, he followed Robert into the next room.

Vince Grady was face down on the floor, buck-naked and dripping wet, with his hands cuffed behind his back. Blood from a head wound was trickling down Vince's face. Robert had one knee shoved into the big man's back. "Hold the fuck still." Robert snarled the words and smacked the open wound on Vince's head for emphasis.

Glenn lifted his eyebrows in surprise. I wouldn't have thought the librarian had it in him. Still, I don't mind playing the good guy. Crouching down on his haunches, Glenn tipped the prone man's head until he caught Grady's gaze. His demon-forced ability slipped out and threaded its way into the ex-security guard's mind. "Vince. So nice to finally meet you."

"Go to hell." Vince's face screwed up into an ugly knot and he spat at Glenn. The spittle didn't travel far and most of it ended up on Vince's chin.

Glenn gave Robert a look and a nod. The Englishman reached back and broke one of Vince's fingers. The big man bellowed in pain.

"Shut up." Robert smacked Vince on the head again.

"If you don't want to play nice," Glenn purred the words, "we can do this the hard way."

"What do you want?" Vince rolled his eyes up towards Glen's face. "I don't know you assholes."

"But we know you. And who you're watching." Glenn shook one finger at him.

Vince started to struggle again. "If you fuckers are here to protect that murderous bitch—" He let out a yelp as Robert smacked his head wound.

"I don't care if you watch them, Grady. But you will not speak to them, call them, or threaten them in any way. And if Callie White shows up, you are going to call the cops. This cop, in fact." Glenn held up a card with Lachler's phone number on it and stood so that he could set the card on the dresser.

"Who are you people?" Vince writhed on the floor and tried to look over his shoulder.

Robert casually dug his fingers into Vince's hair and thumped the big man's head against the floor. Then he dragged Vince's head and torso up by the hair and pressed a knife against his throat.

Glenn sucked in his breath. Where the hell did the knife come from?

The Englishmen looked up and as their gazes met, a hot spark of arousal flared through Glenn. Robert's nostrils flared and one corner of his mouth curled up.

Shit, shit, Glenn thought. Does he feed on sex? Is that why I feel attracted to him? Glenn struggled to keep his face empty of emotion. Revealing his concern would leave him vulnerable. He dropped his gaze to Vince. The ex-security guard was sweating now and his eyes were rolled back up in his head.

"This is a yes or no kind of arrangement." Glenn moved until he could meet the wild-eyed gaze of the man on the floor.

"Okay, Jesus Christ, okay."

Glenn shook his head. "Say the words, Grady. Promise me or my friend here will cut you open."

"I'll do what you say. Call that cop if Callie shows up. And I won't do anything to the Whites. Just watch." Vince gasped the words out. "Now put the fucking knife away."

The knife disappeared and Robert shifted until he was standing over Grady.

"You people are insane." Vince huffed.

"Murderous bitches, Grady." Robert slapped him on the shoulder. "I'm glad we had this little chat. You enjoy your evening."

"Wait, you gotta uncuff me!" Vince writhed on the floor and kicked his feet.

Robert pulled out a small syringe and pulled the plastic cap off with his teeth. He twisted and jabbed it into Grady's ample ass. The man let out a surprised sound and jerked. "What the fuck did you do to..." His words trailed off and he slumped into the floor.

"Fast acting stuff." Glenn motioned at the syringe.

Robert shrugged and started uncuffing the unconscious man. "You hungry?"

"What?" Glenn said and then wished he hadn't. "You're hungry?" Equally stupid thing to say, Helms. Stop acting like you're newly bitten.

"Famished. You like Thai? I know a place not too far from here. Their spring rolls are fantastic." The handcuffs disappeared in the same way as the knife.

Glenn studied Robert's face and tried to see some hint of what the other man was thinking. All he saw was a bland, empty smile and eyes to match. How much of that is his ability? The possibility that he was in danger sent excitement racing through Glenn's veins and it was hard to distinguish the feeling from his earlier flare of interest in the dull little librarian. Again, his hunger stirred sluggishly and Glenn pushed it ruthlessly to the side.

"Sure, I could eat."

***

####  Chapter 6: Robert

Fuck it; I want to feed on him. The thought had been echoing in his head the whole way to the restaurant and it took everything he had not to move too quickly. Glenn might be interested in him, but the man was still an ex-pet. If Robert rushed him, Glenn would say no out of reflex.

Robert waited until the waiter had taken their orders and brought glasses of beer before re-opening the conditions of their arrangement. "I have a question for you."

Glenn's nostrils flared. "Of course you do."

"It is... outside the bounds of our arrangement." Robert said the words as if he tasted something bad. I need our game to be a little less vicious, if I'm going to get what I want.

The other man's lips twitched as he restrained a smile. "Oh?"

"The question is personal, but does not help me further this project of ours in any way. I just want to know." Admitting curiosity was akin to admitting weakness, but then, they weren't actually in a court.

Glenn narrowed his eyes and pursed his lips. "I get to ask you any three questions I like."

"You've got a real thing for three's, Glenn." Robert leaned back in his seat and flexed his shoulder blades until his spine cracked. I expected you to ask for more. I invited you to.

"I know I could have asked for more. But I want you to have positive things to say about me to Silas, librarian." Glenn lifted his eyebrows and smirked.

"Tired of the suburbs?" Robert positioned himself carefully, reclining in the most boneless fashion he could muster. Glenn's eyes widened and Robert laughed. "Silas puts all the ex-pets out in 'burbs. Some of them even end up loving it. The right subdivision is as vicious as any court. The rest, well, they learn self-control."

"He's a crafty bastard. Many of the pets in Harley's court don't take him seriously." Glenn took a sip of beer and then set the glass back down on the table.

I wonder what he looks like when he's not so studied. Desire flashed through him. Did that show up in my eyes? Glenn didn't shift or respond at all. Bloody hell, it's so damn difficult to seduce someone when they insist on seeing you as bland and insipid. Of course, he'd be pretending not to see it no matter what I did. "I take it no one had screwed up the courage to challenge him, then."

Glenn shook his head. "Someone will, at the next Conclave meeting. He refused to play the game when the Conclave was last held in Las Vegas."

Robert let himself laugh as hard as he wanted to. "The pets in a baby's court are so god damn dumb. Silas' is too busy playing the game with the demonridden to bother with the likes of Harley's pets."

"Some of them are aware of that." Glenn took another sip of beer and shot Robert a sly look. "So what's your question?"

Mmm, and we're not finalizing the agreement. Interesting. Bold move, cupcake. "How did you end up Moe's whipping boy?"

Glenn's nostrils flared as anger flashed over his face momentarily. It was gone as quickly as it appeared. "For that information, you're going to have to answer a question now."

Robert made a go-ahead motion and then picked up his beer glass to cover any signs of nervousness.

"Why did you leave court?" Only a quick, nervous flutter of Glenn's eyelashes gave away any feelings of uncertainty about the accuracy of his inquiry.

Still bitter about that one, I see. Pity I can't answer. "My blood contract was far from basic, Glenn. I cannot answer your question."

Glenn tilted his head and studied Robert. "How long have you been out? Or is that protected information as well?"

"Seventeen years. Give or take."

"You were bitten awfully young." Glenn shifted his legs and gave the other man a critical once over.

So I look young to him. I wonder how young. "Was I?" Robert curled his lips up a little into a small smile.

Glenn frowned into his glass. "I got outmaneuvered by one of my fellow pets. Believe me when I tell you that I was most fervently planning my escape. It was not my intention to end up exiled, though. That was less than ideal."

"If it's any comfort, after you get through the first couple of years, it gets better."

Glenn snickered. "You sound like a PSA. Are you going to be my ex-pet sponsor?"

Robert didn't smile. "Is that your third question?"

"I only asked one!" Glenn protested, sitting up in his chair.

"You definitely asked two." Robert waggled his eyebrows at Glenn.

Glenn's lips pinched together but he didn't argue. "And the other matter?"

"Help me get this job done efficiently and in the way we have outlined and you'll get your positive report. There is no game you can play that will get you out of that. Silas only cares about results." Robert fully expected Glenn to sulk over the pronouncement, but all the other man did was frown into his glass.

"Why does he care about this girl and her parents so much?" Glenn looked up at Robert and added, "And that's a professional question."

Robert shrugged. "No idea."

"You're doing all of this and you have no idea?" Glenn shot him a doubtful glance over the top of his beer.

"That's the way it works." Robert dropped his gaze to the table and kept his thoughts to himself. He knew damn well he was too skilled for to be used for busy work. Everything about Callie White's case was screwy and he didn't need anyone to tell him he was here to figure out who had so effectively buried the involvement of the demonridden. It wasn't Silas, that's for damn sure.

The server arrived and set down a plate with two spring rolls and for a minute, they were both preoccupied with the food. As the salty sweet of the sauce burst across his tongue, Robert shot a look at the Glenn. The lean man had already taken a bite and Robert was strangely disappointed he hadn't gotten to watch him to do it.

Glenn grinned and spoke around the food. "Tasty. Now tell me something interesting."

Robert's eyebrows jumped upwards and he swallowed his spring roll. "About what?"

"What do I care? Or are we just going to gaze into each other's eyes while we eat?" Glenn chuckled and shook his head. "Everyone will think we're on a date."

Now that he was on the spot, Robert's mind went blank. After a moment, he managed to say, "Officer Lachler feeds on irritation."

"For real?" Glenn asked and then burst into laughter when Robert nodded.

"He can't turn his ability off, either." Robert found himself chuckling along with Glenn. He felt sorry for Lachler, but the man was unbelievably rude.

Glenn laughed harder. "Oh, poor piggie. Does his ability affect the bitten too?"

"A few. He's pretty much always got to feed on our kind, because humans like him no matter what he does." Robert didn't mention that he and Lachler had an arrangement to do exactly that.

Glenn wiped a tear away from his eye and took another bite of his food. Once he'd swallowed, his eyes narrowed shrewdly. "Is he dirty? He's got eyes like he's dirty."

Robert considered that question as he finished his own spring roll. Finally, he shrugged. "Can't say he's squeaky clean, but he's not abusing anybody with his ability and he's useful."

"And that's all that matters?" Glenn asked quietly.

"Now you're getting it." Robert lifted his glass in a salute.

Glenn's shoulders relaxed minutely, but his hand flexed tightly around his beer glass.

Robert frowned and opened his mouth to ask what Glenn was thinking, but then the food arrived and the moment passed.

***

####  Chapter 7: Glenn

Glenn hunched over his coffee and watched Robert eat an omelet, toast, and a stack of bacon with ill-disguised disgust. Early morning sun filtered in through the kitchen window. How can he eat so much first thing? "You're a barbarian. A barbarian librarian."

Robert huffed a laugh. "We can't all eat like birds, cupcake."

"I eat plenty." Glenn felt his eyelids flutter in relief as he took another sip of coffee.

"Yeah?" The corner of Robert's mouth lifted and he shot Glenn an amused glance.

Damn the man to the other world. When Robert had first so openly announced he was going to feed, Glenn had been sure such a weakness would help him manipulate the Englishmen. Instead, Robert had gone out three nights running and Glenn was getting progressively hungrier. And I can hardly demand to be fed, after the shit I gave him. And so, he'd been stuck indoors leaving a trail of Internet breadcrumbs for the Whites to find, and ignoring the hunger pains in his chest. Particularly the inconvenient and annoying hunger that kept suggesting Robert might make a good meal. The silence had gone on too long and Robert had scored a point. Glenn just managed not to grimace. Getting my ass kicked in a game with a librarian. How embarrassing.

"How did you find this place, anyhow?" Glenn motioned around him. The owner of the home was in his mid-thirties, single, and seemed to spend most of his time at work. Furthermore, the house was just over a block away from John and Margaret White's place. It seemed a little too perfect.

"Craigslist ad." Robert mopped up egg yolk with a piece of toast.

"Really? No fancy tricks?" Glenn reached out and poured more coffee into his cup. If he could, he'd pump it directly into his veins. He'd been up half the night monkeying with their cover story, but Robert was an earlier riser. Glenn couldn't stand to be asleep with someone awake in the same room.

"Nah. I've got the White's place bugged six ways to Sunday. We just need to be close enough that we can get there in a hurry." Robert let out a startlingly loud belch.

"Complete and utter barbarian." Glenn shook his head sadly.

Robert chuckled. "You should have seen your face. How much more time do you need?"

Glenn considered his answer. I need to get out of this house and feed. "How does it work?" He waggled his fingers at Robert. "Your ability, I mean. Do you have any," Glenn tipped his head from side-to-side, "nuance?"

Robert narrowed his eyes and then, in a nervous gesture, tilted his head to one side until his spine popped. "I don't have much control, but if you could get something fixed in your head, the Whites might see the same thing. Or something close enough not to matter."

He admits weakness so easily it's not even fun. And why do I keep failing at using that against him? Frustration burned in Glenn's chest, though he was careful to keep his face blank. "We need to go shopping."

"Sure." Robert's eyes crinkled though he didn't actually smile. "We can go right now, if you want."

Glenn rolled his eyes. "It's barely dawn. No place worth shopping at is open now."

Robert's laugh rumbled through the kitchen. "It's almost eight, you lazy thing."

"Some of us were up until four. Besides, I need to do a little research and get dressed." Then Glenn huddled around his coffee cup. "And I haven't had nearly enough coffee."

Just after 10am, the two of them strolled into a store that made Glenn sigh in happiness. Everything in the place gleamed, from the nearly all glass front to the wooden floor, and beautiful clothing hung from wooden hangers or sat in neat stacks on well-placed display tables. A salesman dressed in well-cut and sinfully tight grey slacks was already moving towards them.

"Stay here," Glenn muttered under his breath and then sashayed forward to meet the salesman.

Before the salesman opened mouth, Glenn knew two things about him. First, the narrow faced young man was standing in a cloud of greed. Glenn's mouth started to water and he had to work at keeping his walk relaxed. It was never a good idea to look too eager. Second, they were both batting for the same team. That will make everything so much easier.

"Can I help you with something today, sir?" The salesman gave a smoothly practiced smile.

Without having to do anything, the cloud of greed drifted towards Glenn and it was a relief as it settled onto his skin. Something tight in his chest relaxed.

"Do you see that man over there?" Glenn tipped his head in Robert's direction. The librarian had picked up a sweater and was fruitlessly trying to re-fold it.

The salesman's face remained neutrally pleasant. "Yes, sir."

"He's fantastic in bed." Glenn kept his eyes on Robert as he spoke, though he enjoyed the salesman's surprised inhale. "Gets hard on command and willing to try anything. Stamina like you would not believe."

Between one blink and the next, Robert's potbelly disappeared. Glenn tried not to crow in triumph. I see how this works, now, librarian.

"Unfortunately," Glenn sighed dramatically, "he looks like his mother dressed him. In the dark."

The salesman let out a choked laugh and Glenn shot the shorter man an amused look. The cloud of greed expanded as the salesman considered the potential of selling someone an entire wardrobe.

"It's taken me weeks to get him to agree to come in this morning, so I need you to be right the first time. I'm thinking classic, simple, easy. Once I show him the benefits of dressing like a grown-up, well..." Glenn shrugged and let the salesman fill in the blanks.

The salesman gave Glenn a smug smile. "Of course. If you and your friend would like to follow me?"

Glenn beckoned Robert over and they headed to the back of the store. His eyes look different too. Less watery. This helps us enormously. Glenn immediately began spinning out a story in his head that he thought the Whites would believe.

"Can I get you gentleman some bottled water?" the salesman asked as he settled them into a large dressing room. He gave Robert a lingering, curious glance as they both said no and then left.

"Okay, so why's that guy looking at me like I've grown a second head?" Robert set a battered black backpack on the floor and settled onto the padded bench that ran along one wall of the changing room.

"I told him you were fantastic in bed," Glenn drawled. He couldn't get a read on Robert's sexual preferences at all and it annoyed him.

Robert shot him a look and then nodded. "Well, that's true."

"Even if you do look like your mother dressed you," Glenn added.

"You just don't give up, do you, cupcake?" Robert shook his head and then leaned forward until his elbows rested on his knees. "Why are we here?"

Glenn was surprised the other man had waited this long to ask. "The Whites will be more inclined to trust you if they think you're like them. We're going to meet with them together and we need them to think we're a team."

"A couple," Robert said evenly.

Glenn glanced in the mirror on the other wall, but the librarian's face was just as empty as his tone. "A team. I think whether or not they think we're fucking is less important. These two trust each other and they've been solid for decades. It will be easier for them to believe two people will be better at finding their daughter than one."

"Okay. I still don't see what we're doing here." Robert looked at Glenn over his shoulder. "Whatever you think I'm wearing, I'm not."

One corner of Glenn's mouth curled upwards. "I figured that out already. But I need help imagining you looking different." He flicked his gaze over Robert's body. "As soon as I told that kid you got hard on command, you lost about thirty pounds."

"Bloody hell," Robert muttered under his breath.

Glenn was almost annoyed the salesman chose that moment to return and interrupt the flirtation. As soon as he realized that, he felt a flush of embarrassment. He'd thought if he had a chance to absorb some greed, his interest in Robert would die down. Glenn clenched his jaw and thought, I'm losing this game at every turn.

"I'll leave you alone to change, honey." Glenn wiggled his fingers at Robert and then followed his food out into the lounge area. He chatted with the salesman and absorbed as much greed as he could. Who knew when he'd have another chance to feed and there was no goddamn way he was going to...

Robert walked out of the dressing room and Glenn almost swallowed his tongue. The khaki's were low slung and just tight enough to be interesting and the grey blue jacket brought out the color of Robert's eyes. All the details were the same—brown hair, blue eyes, white skin—but now he looked like a man who liked good wine and better food, laughed a lot, and had eyes sharp enough to believe he could find a missing girl.

"Pay the man." Glenn breathed it without thinking and was rewarded by a splash of greed from the salesman.

Robert's new grin was devastating and his English accent jumped up a couple of social rungs. "Hold on, my card's in the dressing room." Once the salesman was gone again, Robert lifted one eyebrow, "You know we don't have to actually buy the clothes."

Glenn shrugged one shoulder and gave into his urge to touch the other man. "You shouldn't button this up so high." He reached out and undid two buttons on the white shirt.

Robert's voice was low and his breath brushed across Glenn's face as he spoke. "I didn't."

Glenn dropped his hands like he'd been burned and stepped away. "Oh. Strange ability you have, librarian." He made himself give Robert a mocking grin and hoped it didn't look as false as it felt. He'd just made a blunder of epic proportions. Why not just offer to blow him and be done with it? The image of what it might look like if he did exactly that in the brightly lit lounge of the clothing boutique arose in his mind. His traitorous cock twitched with interest.

Robert had his head tipped to one side and openly, blatantly checked Glenn out.

It was all Glenn could do to stop himself from gasping in shock like a virgin getting his first glance at a real penis.

"The rules of the game are different out here, Glenn," Robert said quietly.

Sympathy. The kiss of death. Letting someone feed on you made you weak, a victim, and that was true in or out of court. That Robert would offer his sympathy was just heaping one insult on after the next.

Shoving all of his feelings to one side, Glenn said coldly, "The rules may be different, but the goals are always the same."

Robert opened his mouth to speak and then closed it as the salesman returned to ask them if there was anything else, anything at all, he could do for them.

I'm not going to lose this game. I'm done fucking around.

***

####  Chapter 8: Robert

They pulled up in front of the White's home in a car rented especially for the purpose. Robert had suggested they walk, but Glenn had dismissed that with flick of his fingers as he pointed out that it wouldn't do for the Whites to wonder just where they'd walked from. Robert couldn't fault the logic and, in truth, Glenn's attention to detail was entertaining. Even if he's been as friendly as a block of ice the past couple days.

"You ready, librarian?" There was a hint of disdain in the question, as if Glenn didn't believe Robert was up to the task.

"Do I still look right to you, cupcake?" Robert didn't bother to disguise the lust in his voice. If Glenn couldn't hear, it was because the lean man didn't want to.

Glenn shot a quick glance at him, nodded, and then stepped out of the car. Robert sighed. The itching between his shoulder blades told him that the other man was interested, very interested, but that didn't do much good when Glenn had retreated into icy glares and kept three feet of distance between them at all times. Bloody ex-pets making everything ten times more complicated than it needs to be, he thought grumpily as he got out of the car.

As they walked up to the house, Glenn shot a hard glare over his shoulder and said, "Stay in character."

Robert sighed. "Yes, mother." He was disappointed when Glenn didn't take to the bait.

Mrs. White answered the door and she didn't bother to disguise her perusal. Robert was surprised to find her gaze disconcertingly direct, as if she could see to the man he was underneath the illusion of his power. People didn't usually look at him like that. She gave Glenn the same treatment, starting with his lemon yellow loafers, moving over his dark blue jeans, yellow sweater, and herringbone jacket, before stopping at the camouflage bow tie.

A small smile ghosted across her lips. "Nice tie." She had a pleasantly husky voice.

Glenn gave her a wide, pleased smile. "Thanks."

As she stepped away from the door and motioned them inside, Robert gave her a covert perusal of his own. She was distinctly more compelling in person than she was on camera. Margaret White was 5'6" and spent enough time in the gym to be lean. She wore bright blue felt slippers. Her grey hair was cropped short and stylishly mussed. Her loose cotton pants were black; the white tank top draped between her breasts, and her grey cardigan fell past her hips. Glenn swore her clothing was expensive, though Robert found it hard to believe. Who would pay that much to wear pajamas?

"Can I get you guys anything to drink?" Mr. White leaned out the kitchen door and smiled pleasantly at both of them. With his wild, curly hair that was more salt than pepper, and a potbelly, he looked mostly harmless. Robert knew there was a sharp, analytic mind behind the rumpled button downs, ratty jeans, and vague smiles.

"We'll take water," Glenn answered for both of them. Tucking his hands into his pockets, he looked around. "Your place is very cozy."

Mrs. White murmured a thank you and guided them to the living room. Two, dark green armchairs faced a dark brown couch. The low coffee table was a warm, golden wood and in the center sat a small sculpture—three roughhewn figures in grey stone squatted in a circle with their arms around one another's shoulders.

It took a few minutes to for everyone to settle into their places and make polite invitations to use first names. Robert obeyed Glenn's earlier instructions and sat down on the couch, crossing his left leg over his right and stretching his right arm along the back. Glenn perched on the edge of the couch with his ankles crossed and hands folded in his lap. Glenn was near enough that Robert could, if he stretched, touch the other man.

"Gentleman, I'm afraid we're not really clear on what it is you think you can do for us." Margaret White spread her hands in front of her and tilted her head to one side.

"I don't know all of the details of your daughter's case, but I know enough to be able to say that it's getting colder by the day. If your current PI isn't making noises about wasting your money, you should get a new one no matter what you decide about us." Robert twisted one half of his mouth up in an effort to ease the sting of his words. He had no way of knowing if it translated through his power.

"We are not giving up the search for our daughter." As John White spoke the distracted, friendly look in his eyes bled away.

"We aren't suggesting that you do." Glenn leaned forward, every line of his body communicating his earnest commitment to finding Callie White. "Just that maybe it's time to change tactics."

"Your daughter's case wouldn't be our only case. It would be one of the dozens we're investigating. And we don't promise results. Just that we'll keep searching until we find an answer or until you tell us to stop." Robert picked up Glenn's explanation as smoothly as he could. Both of the Whites were now watching them like a tennis match.

"But you don't get paid." John didn't bother to hide his disbelief.

"Not until we succeed," Glenn countered smoothly. "You read the contract we sent you. You and Margaret make a deposit to an account each month. When we solve the case, we take the balance in the account."

"How do you people stay in business?" Margaret asked. She leaned back into the armchair and folded her arms. "The number you quoted us seems much too low."

Robert rubbed one hand through his hair and tried to look rueful. "We don't make money. I inherited enough when my parents died that..." He trailed off and shrugged.

"We tried offering our services for free," Glenn picked up the thread of conversation effortlessly. "But people seemed to think we were con artists." He gave a small, almost pouty, frown to indicate how offensive he found that.

"Or they wanted us to find their lost cat. Or dog. Or cheating bastard of a husband." Robert added. This was a pre-arranged moment designed to set the Whites at ease. He shot a smile at Glenn who met his gaze and chuckled.

When he looked back at the Whites, they'd both started to relax. I have to admit, Glenn made this whole thing much easier.

"We take the cases that sound the most interesting to us," Glenn continued. "We do have cases we haven't solved."

"Yet." Robert shot a frown at Glenn. This, too, was part of the act.

Glenn smiled and corrected himself. "Yet. Robert doesn't like it when he can't solve a puzzle. Worries at it like a dog with a bone."

Both of the Whites were smiling now and Robert knew they'd sign the contract and stop wasting their money paying a PI who would never be able to solve the case. I guess Glenn can go home. He frowned without thinking and then smoothed the expression away.

***

####  Chapter 9: Glenn

"You want a drink?" Robert asked as they entered the bedroom. Without waiting for a reply, he continued, "I'm going to have a drink." Opening a desk drawer, he pulled out a bottle of scotch and two tumblers.

Glenn opened his mouth to say that he hated scotch and then closed it. "Sure." He stood awkwardly in the doorway, and the bed seemed to take up too much space in the room. Stop thinking about fucking him. All he wants to do is dig his power into me, show me who's boss. I'm not putting up with that shit.

The room was dimly lit, just a lamp next to the bed, and Glenn debated whether or not he should flip the overhead light on. No, that will make me look weak. Like I care what's going on with the lights. And I don't.

Robert handed him the glass of shimmering amber liquid with a half-smile. "You did good work. Something I will tell Silas when I speak with him next." The other man sat down in the desk chair with a sigh and rubbed his eyes.

"Does this mean my job is over?" Glenn asked and sat down on the bed gingerly. He took a sip of the booze and managed not to gag. "How can you drink this?"

"I like the burn," Robert said slowly, and just a touch huskier than usual.

Glenn looked up in surprise and their gazes clashed. Don't get distracted. Don't let him play you. "So does this mean I get to ask my questions?"

"Three of your choice and one that I asked you." Robert nodded and took another swallow from the glass. "Shoot."

"Figure out a way to tell me why you had to leave court," Glenn said flatly. Anger at Robert's earlier refusal to answer the question simmered in between his shoulder blades.

Robert sighed and rubbed his neck nervously. "I saw something I shouldn't." Then he let out a bark of laughter, as if the statement was utterly ridiculous. "I saw something," he paused and shook his head, "something so forbidden that I don't know how I survived. How I managed to escape."

Glenn mulled that over as he drank more of the scotch. As disgusting as it was, the heat spreading through him was welcome. What did he see? That was a question Glenn wasn't going to waste a question on. It was clear that Robert couldn't answer. "How do you feed?"

"Sex." There was no hesitation in Robert's answer and not so much as a flicker of confirmation that this forced revealing made him uncomfortable.

Do you feed on men or women? The question hovered on his tongue, but Glenn knew better than to ask it. It gave away more than it demanded. "How do I convince Silas not to send me back the 'burbs?"

Robert blinked rapidly and then took a swallow of his drink. "I, uh. I guess I don't really know." One shoulder lifted up and then dropped down. "I could ask him if I could keep you around but..." His gaze wandered around the room as he trailed off.

Glenn's whole body clenched involuntarily as he waited for the price Robert would demand for making that request. Glenn had been waiting for Robert to make a power play for days and it was almost a relief that the moment was here. At least I'll know where I stand. And damn it, if I can't show that I'm useful, they'll push me out. There is no god damn way I'm going to be one of the lost. His heart thundered in his chest and he wondered how far he was willing to go to stay out of suburbia. Don't ask for anything too sick, he thought the instruction at Robert.

"I think you might be bored," Robert finally said. There was a trace of regret in his voice. "This is the most excitement I've had in weeks. Mostly, I've been sitting at this desk, making notes on the Whites' activities."

The relief Glenn felt was both welcome and annoying. Why can't the man just behave like a normal person? That was clearly his chance to maneuver me into bed. Why pass on it? Unless he doesn't really want to? Is that just part of his game? "What does it mean that you're here, doing this job? To Silas, the free bitten, I mean."

Robert inhaled slowly and pursed his lips. "Why do you keep asking me questions I can't answer?"

Glenn rolled his eyes. "Because those are the interesting questions. Do your best, librarian."

"I'm not a cleanup crew," Robert said, referring to the teams who took care of problems for the free bitten, "but I'm not a light weight, either. I usually gather information Silas wants, poke around and ask questions. People tend to talk to me." A smile creased Robert's face. "That Silas wants me to be here, well, there's got to be something more going on. I'm still not sure your skill set..."

Robert leaned over with a frown and started tapping the keyboard. Glenn scooted forward until he could see the screen as well. One of the exterior cameras, the one overlooking the garage and driveway, was out. Black and white static filled the screen.

"Damn," the Englishman muttered. "Come on, let's go check that."

"My job is done, remember?" Glenn said and then mentally cursed himself. Now that Robert had said he shouldn't stay, Glenn was certain he didn't want to leave. I just can't go back to suburbs. The boredom is going to kill me.

"Suit yourself." Robert stretched and Glenn found himself checking the other man out yet again.

Maybe I could... maybe we could. Glenn had no idea how to go about seducing another of the bitten. Then he shook the thought off. What seduction? He already knows I'm attracted to him. That's the problem. There's no way I can... we just can't.

"At least keep an eye on me?" The grin Robert shot him made Glenn's insides tighten.

Glenn licked his lips and nodded in agreement. "Sure."

Once Robert was gone, Glenn shrugged out of his jacket and dropped the black, white and yellow checked scarf on the bed. Loosening his bowtie, he sat down in the desk chair and kept an eye on the cameras. After a couple of minutes, the camera came back online and Glenn suddenly had a close up of Robert's face. The Englishman leaned back and then stuck out his tongue. Glenn laughed in spite of himself.

He watched Robert step away from the camera and then something went wrong. Robert's face went slack in shock and he doubled over. Glenn's eyes started to ache as Robert began to punch the air.

Someone's attacking him. Someone I can't see. Glenn was out of the chair before he'd finished thinking it through. He ran as fast as he could, praying he could close the distance fast enough. Robert's bellow of pain pulled an extra burst of speed out of him and as he rounded the corner of the garage, his hindbrain processed what was going on in a millisecond.

Glenn drove his foot into the kidney of the pale, blond kid who was kneeling over Robert with a bloody knife in his hand. He made contact with a meaty thud and didn't pause as he aimed another kick to the kid's ribs. Before the kid could recover, Glenn lunged forward, and jerked the boy off Robert by the hair. The kid howled in rage and tried to stab Glenn with the knife. Glenn grabbed the kid's wrist and then pounded his knee into his opponent's elbow. The arm broke with a sickening crack and the knife clattered to the ground. Keeping hold of the kid's hair, Glenn pulled until he could slam the boy's head against the cement. One. Two. Three.

"Don't kill him," Robert said hoarsely. He had one hand pressed against his gut and was lifting his head slightly.

Glenn paused, holding the kid's head above the ground, and was suddenly shaking with rage. "Fuck that," Glenn snarled. "He just stabbed you."

Robert shook his head. "We need him."

Glenn dropped the kid and Robert began fumbling with the pocket of his cargo pants. "I have zip ties in this pocket."

He wasn't wearing cargo pants when he left. In fact, who the hell is this guy? All of the basics were the same—brown hair, blue eyes, white skin. Other than that, it was like looking at a different person. Again. Robert looked about ten years older, grizzled, eyes hard and sharp, and he had a nasty scar running across one cheek and under his mouth. It looked like someone had tried to cut his throat and failed. Is this the real Robert?

Glenn caught the zip ties with one hand and trussed the unconscious kid up.

"I need your help." Robert was breathing in short, rapid pants. "I've got bandages in the left thigh pocket. We just need to hold my bits together long enough to get to a jack. Understood?"

"Can't you heal yourself?" Glenn asked, eyes flickering around the alleyway.

Robert shook his head. "I'm not strong enough."

"Me either," Glenn said curtly and ignored the flicker of panic the reveal prompted. He pulled the bandages out and didn't hesitate to pull the bandages tight even as Robert hissed in pain. "Don't pass out on me, librarian."

Robert gave a wan smile. "I'll do my best. This next part is going to suck. You need to drag this kid into the space between the two garages and then come help me get to the same spot. Then you need to go get the car."

"I'm not going to leave you here. You're as weak as a kitten," Glenn said impatiently, but he was already moving to drag the unconscious man into the shadows. His body, as always seemed to happen in a crisis, knew what to do before his mind did.

When Glenn came back, he paused for a moment at the small vicious looking gun that appeared in Robert's hand. "I see the kitten has claws."

Robert snorted and then groaned. "Don't make a man with a gut wound laugh."

"Should I carry you or help you walk?" Glenn knelt down next Robert.

"Fuck." Robert closed his eyes, the muscles in his neck and shoulders bunching. He opened eyes. "Help me walk."

Glenn did his best to get Robert to the alley with as little damage as possible, but by the time they got there, the Englishman was looking grey in the creases.

"Cupcake," Robert gripped his elbow, "we don't know how many there are, yeah? So just be careful."

"This isn't my first day at this kind of rodeo, librarian. Try not to die while I'm gone." With that, Glenn ducked out into the alley, eyes and ears scanning the world around him. He shoved his bloody hands into the pockets of his jeans. It only took a couple of minutes to get the car and pull it around next to the garage.

Robert was right where Glenn had left him, with a white knuckled grip on the gun. The unconscious guy was still unconscious.

"Put him in the trunk," Robert said, eyelids fluttering.

"You aren't going to last much longer," Glenn said as he manhandled the tied up stranger. His heart raced in his chest as he realized Robert might actually die.

"I'll be okay once we get to the safe house. The local jack's boss." Robert's accent had changed one again, the vowels broader and thicker.

Glenn helped Robert into the passenger seat, hyper-aware of the gun in Robert's hands and every rustle of the wind.

"Okay, librarian, where am I going?" Glenn started the car.

Robert patted his jacket and murmured, "My phone. Call home, tell them, we're in the neighborhood and need to stop by."

"That doesn't tell me where I'm going." Glenn reached over with one hand and pulled the phone from Robert's pocket.

"I know where I'm going." Robert's eyelids fluttered.

"Hey! Hey!" Glenn bonked Robert on the nose with the phone. "Don't you fucking die on me."

Robert blinked rapidly. "Ah cupcake, didn't know you cared. Get onto 35W."

"I have no idea where that is and I'm not going to explain to Silas how you got killed." He followed Robert's brief gestures as he dialed the phone with one hand. When a woman answered the phone, Glenn said tersely, "We're in the neighborhood and need to stop by."

"I see. We'll be waiting." The woman hung up the phone.

"Robert!" Glenn said sharply when he looked over and saw Robert's head nodding. Frustration scoured his skin as he pulled the car over.

"Can't. Stop." Robert murmured the words.

"You're going to bleed out, you moron." Glenn jerked his sweater off and pressed it into the already bloody bandages. He hoped it would be enough as he pulled back onto the road. Glenn shot a worried look at Robert. "Where'd you grow up, librarian?"

"Liverpool. You? At the light..." Robert trailed off and then motioned to the right with his hand.

"Detroit," Glenn replied. The turn took them into an on ramp and he mashed the pedal down.

"Wouldn't... have... guessed..." Robert's head lolled back for a moment. "Take 94W."

Glenn looked up at the green and white reflective signs and then switched into another lane. "What's Liverpool like?"

Robert was quiet for a long moment. "Good... football... cupcake... she's going to be so pissed."

Heat prickled his skin as he began to panic. "You're not making sense."

"Can't... you... tell you the address... put it in the phone. She'll... tell her she can't destroy the phone... stuff I need."

Glenn wanted to scream with frustration, but he made himself pick up the phone and open up the map app. He kept his gaze moving between the road and the phone. "Okay. Shoot."

Robert wheezed out the address. "Sssorry. S'my fault. Sloppy."

"You're damn right it was sloppy! And I swear if you die, I'm going to kick your ass. Robert!"

The librarian was unconscious.

***

####  Chapter 10: Glenn

Set halfway up a hill, the arching windows and manicured landscaping of the house screamed money. Glenn barely noticed. It hadn't taken long to get here, ten minutes at most, but every one had felt as long as a year. The garage door was open and as soon as he pulled the car in, it began to close.

A white woman in her sixties, long silver hair plaited into two braids, stood in front of a door at the back of garage bay.

Glenn leapt from the car to run around to the passenger side. "We don't have much time. He passed out a while ago and his breathing is getting shaky. Also we have someone in the trunk." He began hauling Robert out of the car.

The woman strode across the garage and lifted Robert's feet. "Dangerous?"

"He did this," Glenn pointed at the bloody wound in Robert's belly with his chin, "so I'm going with yes."

The woman nodded. "Okay. We can deal with that. Are you strong enough to heal yourself?"

"No. He said you'd take care of it." An edge of hysteria bled into his voice and Glenn couldn't even get it together enough to care that he was showing weakness.

"Calm down. My partner's a jack-of-all-trades, but she's not going to be back until tomorrow. I can heal him, but I'm a bone breaker. It will hurt. A lot. What do you feed on?" The woman, holding Robert's feet, walked backwards up the small flight of stairs that led into the house.

Glenn paused, surprised that the question was offensive even in circumstances as dire as this, and then said, "Greed." The answer fell of his lips easily. And then, looking down at the blood splashed across Robert's stomach, added, "And sex." It was the first time he'd ever said that out loud to anyone other than Silas.

The woman let out a sigh of relief. "It's not hard to do, but you'll take the brunt of the pain when I filter the power needed to heal him through. After that, it's as easy as pouring water into a glass. There's a room down this hallway that will work. We need to deal with this now."

Glenn winced. Bonebreakers fed on pain and marrow; tasting her power was going to be unpleasant. "Glenn," he introduced himself.

The woman met his gaze and nodded. "Marion."

Glenn barely noticed the room around him. There was a bed and walls. All he could see was the blood spreading wetly through the make shift bandage around Robert's middle.

"We need to get his shirt off or it'll heal right into the wound." Marion pulled a pair of scissors from the nightstand and cut the shirt off efficiently.

Robert's chest was covered in scars. Holy Mary, look at him. There were three long cuts running across his chest and onto one arm, like something enormous had mauled him. There was a clear bullet wound on his upper chest and around his neck was a necklace of inch wide ridged scars. That's Mordecai's bite mark. He used to be a part of Mordecai's court. Well, fuck, no wonder he can play the game. The Elder demonridden was well over 3,000 and claimed possession of most of Europe. There were only a few demonridden more powerful than Mordecai and his court was huge.

"You need to touch as much of him as possible." Marion stepped back and waved Glenn forward. Glenn pulled his shirt off and tried to be gentle as he eased down onto the bed, but Robert made a distressed sound deep in his throat anyway.

Licking his lips, Glenn looked over his shoulder and nodded at the woman. Marion's hand settled on the back of his neck and then her power tore through him. Glenn struggled to relax so it wouldn't hurt so much. Robert arched back with a strangled cry. Glenn wondered if he should tell Marion to ease up on the power flow, but Robert was in bad shape. We shouldn't have left it to the last minute.

Robert suddenly snagged the power, mixing it with his own and throwing it back to Glenn. The energy slid through him in a curl of pleasure. Robert tugged on his arm and Glenn bent down until their lips met. Robert made a pleased sound and writhed upwards.

Marion's hand was still on the back of his neck and the raw power she was shoving through him felt like it was made of broken glass. Still, the feel of Robert's power mixing with his own left him hard. He rubbed up against Robert's hips and his fingers fumbled with the other man's zipper. Then he wondered if that was actually a good idea. It's not like he conscious.

Glenn pulled away and, ignoring Robert's frustrated sound, asked over his shoulder, "Marion?" He tugged on Robert's zipper.

"Probably a good idea." Her voice sounded strained. "But don't get too active."

Robert's gaze was wide and vacant, but when Glenn's hand closed around his cock, he made a guttural moan. His fingers began fumbling with Glenn's zipper and when he couldn't get it open, Robert made a desperate sound.

"It's okay, librarian. I got you," Glenn said softly and unzipped his pants.

Robert's hand burrowed into the cloth and closed unerringly around Glenn's cock.

Oh god. Glenn couldn't believe how good Robert's power felt. He could also see the wounds on Robert's belly healing. Glenn pushed Robert's hand away and tilted his hips until he could wrap his hand around both of their cocks.

With demanding hands, Robert pulled Glenn down until their mouths met. The pain of Marion's power faded and suddenly, there was only the taste of Robert's mouth, the slick hard feel of their cocks sliding against each other, and the sizzle of power every place they touched. Too much. God, it's too much. I'm going to kill him.

Glenn pulled his mouth away and panted. He twisted to ask Marion what he should do next and then realized the woman was gone. What the hell? Glenn glanced down and saw that Robert's wounds were healed. Only the blood remained.

Robert opened his eyes and licked his lips. "Sorry. Sorry about that."

"Sorry?" Embarrassment heated his cheeks as he realized he still had his fingers wrapped around their cocks. He let go and began to roll away.

Robert's fingers dug into his shoulder. "Settle down, cupcake. I just meant," the Englishman gave a rueful smile, "I was hoping to make out without the threat of my dying as motivation, yeah? Sort of takes the romance out of it when one of you is bleeding out."

Tension eased out of Glenn's muscles. "Oh you were, were you? Since when?" And then, feeling bold, Glenn began to move his mouth along Robert's jaw line until he could close his teeth on his earlobe.

"Since you called Lachler a pig. That was priceless." Robert gasped when Glenn's teeth nibbled his ear.

"Well, now you've got me worked up, so I'm afraid you're just going to have to make do." Did I really just say that? I can't believe I said that. Glenn let his hands roam down Robert's chest. "By the way, who the fuck are you?" He ghosted his hands across the bite mark around Robert's neck.

Robert shuddered and swallowed heavily. "I didn't tell you anything untrue."

"Please. You let me believe you were... invisible," Glenn growled.

"That's what I do." Robert shrugged. "I told you I can't turn it off."

"And straight. You definitely let me think you were straight." Glenn ran a hand over the hard line of Robert's cock.

At that, Robert rolled his eyes. "I did no such thing! I was trying to figure out how to get you into bed without getting embroiled in some ridiculous court game."

"We were in a game from the first moment we met!" Glenn snapped and then fixed his gaze on the far wall of the room. "You were kicking my ass. I practically blew you in a dressing room!"

"Yeah?" A pleased grin spread over his face. Then he shook his head, "I kept trying to tell you the rules are different outside of court. I just didn't know how to tell you I wasn't just fucking with you." His fingers danced across his neck again, "I'll admit the rules of the game around this one were unusual though maybe no pet ever learns how to avoid taking the game seriously."

Glenn stared at the scar. "So the rumors are true? Does Mordecai's court really..." He trailed off as a spark of embarrassment stole his voice. Swallowing, Glenn made himself continue, "Do the pets all feed on each other? Feed Mordecai together?"

Robert shook his head. "I really can't say."

"Your blood contract is that extreme?" Glenn's gaze wandered down the corded muscles of Robert's chest and the erection that still lay thick against his belly.

"Yeah. This one," Robert touched his neck, "doesn't take kindly to rejection. Even when it's bloody well deserved."

There was a thread of rage in his voice that surprised Glenn though, upon reflection, it probably shouldn't have. Mordecai's pets so rarely leave, so for Robert to do so... What did Mordecai do?

"So this isn't..." Glenn started and then stopped with a frown. He wasn't sure how to put his concern into words. Finally, he said, "An attempt to put me in my place?"

"Not unless it's a problem I want you in my bed," Robert said gruffly.

A smile slowly pulled Glenn's lips upwards. "These pants are amazingly ugly," he said and then he reached out to stroke Robert's cock.

"They're practical." Robert lifted his hips up and pushed into Glenn's hand. As he did so, power crackled between them.

Glenn arched up as pleasure unfurled in his belly. "Pervert. Using your power on me."

Robert pulled Glenn down until their mouths were an inch apart. "Not just my power. Feed back loop. This," he pressed his hips upwards, "is us."

With a shudder, Glenn relaxed his own control and let his demon-forced ability spread out and into Robert. The other man moaned and writhed. Their mouths met and Glenn focused his attention on the taste and feel of the man underneath him. He ran his fingers down Robert's chest, fingers bumping over scars. There were new ones, still red and shiny, on Robert's belly.

"Bloody hell," Robert panted against Glenn's neck. "How is that not something you claim as an ability? It's like a lust adrenaline shot."

Glenn shook his head. "I didn't tell anyone. Only Silas."

"Why?" Robert began tugging at Glenn's pants insistently, pushing him onto his back in his efforts. Once he was naked, Robert began trailing his mouth down Glenn's chest, pausing to draw his teeth over the lean man's nipples.

Power flowed between them everywhere their skin touched. "You taste amazing." Robert's mouth closed over the head of Glenn's cock.

The warm, wet heat of Robert's mouth combined with the sharp crackle of power. "Oh fuck, slow down." Glenn's fingers scrabbled into the sheets as he groaned.

Glenn's cock popped free of Robert's mouth with an audible sound. He then moved lower, his mouth closing over Glenn's balls. Robert took his time, working his mouth slowly up the shaft until he could once again suck on the head. All the while, power moved between them and Glenn could barely contain himself. He had avoided fucking other bitten in court; it was too risky and the rewards, he had thought, were too low.

Robert's mouth was moving in a steady rhythm and he rolled Glenn's balls gently with one hand.

"Robert, I'm..." Glenn lifted his hips as his body tightened in orgasm. The other man hummed and swallowed. As he came, Robert split the power and poured half of it back into Glenn. The influx of energy drew the orgasm out. Holy shit. Robert slowly pumped his hand up and down a few times before pulling his mouth away.

"You didn't answer my question." Robert murmured the words as he slowly kissed his way up Glenn's chest. "Do you want to trade for the information?" Robert's arms flexed as he held himself horizontal and press his lips to Glenn's. It was their only point of contact, but Glenn felt the touch slide down him with a shiver.

Glenn reached up and stroked his hand up Robert's cock. He used the wetness at the tip to swirl his fingers around the throbbing head.

"Cupcake." Robert breathed the word against Glenn's cheek.

"On your back," Glenn ordered.

Robert obeyed promptly and Glenn made himself ignore the blood that stained the sheets. They could deal with that later. Instead, Glenn looked over Robert's cock with considering eyes.

"Do you know what people who can feed on sex end up doing in Harley's court?" Glenn began drawing his fingers up and down the shaft.

"No." Robert's hands bunched the sheets up as he made fists.

"Prostitution. Doing it or organizing it. I'm not making judgment on what other people do to eat, but everyone's got to draw a line some place. That was mine."

"Oh. Well that's..." Robert's word trailed off as Glenn began working his tongue up and down.

Glenn shifted onto his knees and licked his lips. It's been way too long since I did this. He drew the head of Robert's cock into his mouth, inhaled slowly, and then swallowed until his nose was buried in the other man's groin.

Robert's cock pulsed rapidly in Glenn's throat as the Englishman let out an incoherent shout and arched his back. The outpouring of power caught Glenn by surprise and so he did nothing to control it. The power burst open between them and Glenn was hard almost immediately. He rubbed his hips against the sheets and the friction felt much too good.

Glenn slowly lifted his mouth off Robert's cock and then cleared his throat. "What are your feelings on anal?"

"Yes." Robert grinned as he answered.

"I want to fuck you." Glenn had meant the words to come out teasing, but instead he sounded needy.

"Still yes." He lifted his hips in a clear invitation.

"Do you... Should I get a condom?" Glenn had no idea where to find one in this house or if Marion would even have such a thing.

Robert lifted his eyebrows. "I can't heal myself, but I haven't had an infection of any kind since I got bit. You?"

"Oh. Well. No." Glenn hadn't really thought about that. His human partners usually wanted condoms, though he'd been more than willing to skip it when they didn't.

"How do you want me?" Robert pushed himself up onto his elbows and looked down at Glenn. The lopsided grin punched Glenn in the chest.

Just like that. He just asks me how I want him like it's not a big deal. Like it isn't a fight over who has the most power, influence, anything. Glenn started to shake and couldn't stop.

"Hey, hey, it's okay. We don't have to do anything." Robert sat up and his fingers were warm against Glenn's skin.

"How long did it take you to get used to being out?" Glenn asked around a clenched jaw. Even his words sounded wobbly and he kept his face pressed into the bed so the other man wouldn't see he was on the verge of tears.

Robert's fingers stilled for a moment and then returned to stroking. "Years."

"I want you from behind." Glenn said the words into the mattress. "And I want to be rough. It still," he shuddered, "still doesn't feel real. That this isn't a game."

"Rough is okay, but I don't want to bleed." Robert's voice was quiet and unyielding. "And I want to come again. And I'm going to feed."

The rules made Glenn feel better. Not a game. An agreement. An understanding. "Yes." He didn't have to guess what the other man was thinking. Robert would just tell him.

Robert shifted, pulling his legs free, and rolled over. Glenn pushed himself up onto his knees and let his hands wander up densely muscled thighs until he could sink his fingers into the firm globes of Robert's ass. I can just have him. The thought made his cock throb. He bent forward and sucked the soft sac skin into his mouth before working his way up to the tight muscle. Glenn sucked and lapped until he could work his tongue into Robert.

"This..." Robert moaned and pushed back. "Is not rough."

Glenn turned his head and bit down hard on one ass cheek. Robert's whole body tensed and jerked. "Better?" Glenn murmured the word before returning to his previous task.

Robert's laugh turned into a groan and his power flared. When Glenn was sure that Robert was ready for him, that the other man needed as much as he did, he slowly pushed the blunt head of his cock past the ring of muscle. As he did so, Glenn let go of his own hunger and Robert bucked underneath him. The movement drove Glenn deeper and he had to breathe deeply to get himself back under control. Slowly, Glenn pressed his way inside, giving Robert time to adjust to the invasion.

Robert had too little hair to grip and so Glenn closed his hand over the other man's neck. "You feel fantastic." He eased slowly out and then pushed back into him hard. "For a librarian."

Robert didn't say anything, just flexed his back and pushed himself into the rhythm Glenn set. By now, Glenn couldn't separate his power from Robert's. It moved between them with every stroke, intensifying the sensations, the scratch of the hairs on Robert's legs against his own, the heat encasing his cock with every thrust, and slaps of their bodies coming together.

"More." Robert twisted over his shoulder to growl the demand.

Oh god yes. Glenn shoved Robert's face into the mattress and lifted himself up until he was crouched over the other man. He drilled into Robert and relished the slick, welcome feel of the other man's body.

"Touch yourself." The guttural command came out of his throat before Glenn had really thought it.

Robert made a keening sound in the back of his throat and shifted, spreading his legs apart so he could get an angle to work his cock. It changed the angle of his body and Glenn's eyes rolled back up into his head. Holy...

The power changed, too, spinning between them so fast it simply felt as if Glenn were vibrating with it. When it finally broke, Glenn dug his fingers into Robert's hips and let out a harsh cry. Even after he came, Glenn kept pumping, wringing every last drop of pleasure out until his cock was too soft to continue. Then he slumped to one side and sprawled on his back. Robert rolled over and they lay together shoulder-to-shoulder and panting rapidly.

After a minute, Robert said, "Not bad. For a cupcake."

Glenn tsked and slapped Robert's chest with the back of one hand.

***

####  Chapter 11: Glenn

Glenn woke when Robert shifted away. "What's wrong?" He blinked and tried to clear the cobwebs from his brain. What time is it? There was hazy light coming through the window and so he figured it had to at least be dawn.

"Nothing. I was just going to go check on the kid. Make sure nothing's wrong." Robert sat up and set his feet on the ground.

"Okay." Glenn yawned. "I'll come too."

Switching on a light, Robert looked around the room for a minute and then crossed over to a dresser that Glenn just noticed was in the room.

"Here." Robert tossed the clothing at Glenn.

Glenn lifted a lip and held the sweatshirt between his thumb and forefinger. I guess it will have to do. My clothes are disgusting. With a sigh, he pulled it on. Robert tossed a pair of sweat pants on the bed.

Robert was frowning and his gaze was fixed on the floor. "Glenn?"

Oh god. Glenn's intestines turned to ice. Was I wrong to trust him? "Yes?"

"How do you feel about torture? I mean, using your ability on someone who's been tortured." Robert said the words in a rush and shot Glenn a guilty glance.

Glenn winced. Oh. That's not much better. "It was something I was hoping I wouldn't have to do again. Turns my stomach."

Robert nodded in agreement. "You don't have to, but Silas is going to want to use the kid. We'll have to bring someone in who can deal with it, though."

"Other people can do what I can?" Glenn's eyebrows climbed his forehead.

"No idea, but Silas will know who to send in if you're not willing. I guess I don't know for sure that Silas will want you to use your ability, but I thought I'd check before offering up the possibility." Robert opened the door and walked into the hallway.

"I'm willing," Glenn said quietly as he followed the other man out of the room.

They found Marion sitting at the breakfast bar in the kitchen. One wall of the kitchen was mostly windows and overlooked a large stone patio surrounded by high wooden walls and covered in tangled greenery.

"Good to see you up and around, Robert." Marion looked them over and then nodded towards the kitchen. "There's coffee and pastries."

"How's the kid?" Robert poured himself a coffee as he asked the question.

Marion shrugged one shoulder. "I set the arm, but didn't heal him. If he can heal himself, he's pretending otherwise. He one of Phaedon's?"

"That's my guess." Robert was still frowning. "You willing to feed on him?"

Marion swallowed and looked away. When she turned her face back, though, she was smiling faintly. "A Silas sanctioned feeding on an angsty teenager in pain? No bonebreaker would say no to that."

Robert rubbed his head with one hand and nodded. "Alright. I'll be back." He stepped outside and Glenn watched him pace back and forth as he talked on his cellphone. Robert still looked scarred and grizzled and Glenn found that he liked this look best of all.

Finally, feeling like a stalker, he pulled his eyes away from Robert and got himself some breakfast. "How long have you and your jack been together?" Glenn asked Marion as he bit into a croissant.

"How long have you and Robert been a thing?" Marion gave him a level look over her coffee cup.

Glenn leaned back until he could see the clock on the gas stove. "About five minutes."

Marion's laugh was low and husky. "We've been together longer than you've been alive."

The door to the deck opened, and they both swiveled their head towards Robert.

"Silas wants him flipped," Robert said as he leaned one hip against the counter. "Glenn, what kinds of promises work the best?"

Glenn pursed his lips. "To get him to work for us?" Damn, it feels good to be part of an us again. "You want him to promise to tell us anything we ask, anything he thinks is important. You want him to keep it a secret from Phaedon. You want him to promise to do his best to be useful. It doesn't matter what order you do it in, though I'd get him to promise to tell us anything we ask. It's an easy promise to make and people often think they can get away with breaking their word later. Don't tell him what I can do unless you have to and definitely not until you've got him mostly pinned down." Glenn considered the situation for a minute and then shrugged. "If I think of anything else, I'll let you know."

"Okay. Glenn, you keep out of the way and do your thing. Marion and I will do most of the heavy lifting." Robert drained the coffee and polished off the rest of a muffin. "You guys ready?"

When they both nodded, Robert smiled at Marion. "Show us the way, yeah?"

Robert paused in front of the door and looked over at Glenn. "Do I look trustworthy?"

Glenn shook his head and then tried to remember what the other man had looked like when they first met. After a moment, the scarred, hard faced Robert melted away and the soft, gentle looking librarian returned. He licked his lips and said, "All set."

The three of them entered the room. The kid looked worse for the wear, with a broken nose and nasty cuts and bruises across his face. The broken arm was splinted, but both arms were cuffed together and then chained to a metal bolt in the floor. The kid's legs were similarly bound. Glenn tucked himself into a corner and Robert and Marion walked over to the kid.

"Heal him." Robert looked at Marion and tipped his head in the direction of the kid.

Her face flexed into a tight knot and then relaxed. Moving around behind the kid, she reached her hands out, pressing them down onto the kid's shoulders. After a minute, he began to scream. Marion's hands flexed open and closed on the kid's shoulders. It was the euphoric look on her face, however, that made Glenn's skin crawl.

It felt like it took hours, though Glenn knew from looking at his phone that it took a matter of minutes. When Marion lifted her hands away, the kid was shivering and sweating. Tears tracked clean paths through the grime on his face. That much fear made it easy for Glenn to slip his power into the kid's mind. It slid around looking for a place to settle.

"What's your name, lad?" Robert sat down in the chair that faced the kid. Marion moved away until she was standing just behind the librarian.

The kid worked his mouth and spat at Robert's feet.

The librarian laughed and leaned forward until he could catch the kid's eye. "You can fight us, if you want, but do you really want to be hurt over something so small as your name?"

The kid said nothing and Robert sighed in annoyance. "Go ahead."

Marion began to change shape, her face elongating until it was little more than distended eyes and a narrow, tube shaped beak with a curved tip. Her shoulders narrowed and her hands shifted until she had long, curved claws. She took one step towards the kid.

"Austin!" the kid squealed. "Austin!"

"Good. That wasn't so hard, was it?" Robert's voice was smooth and friendly. He cracked one set of knuckles and then the other. "Now, let's talk about your future."

***

####  Chapter 12: Robert

Robert stepped outside and let the cool fall air dry the sweat on his skin. Hurting people had been part of his job description since he'd gotten bitten, but he'd never really gotten used to it. He didn't even really like fighting.

The door behind him opened and Glenn's bare feet scuffed quietly against the stones. Robert felt his appearance shifting. Holding one hand out, he watched as his knuckles expanded and calluses took shape on his fingers and palm. With one finger, he rubbed a scar on the back of his right hand. I haven't seen that scar in ages.

Glenn stopped as their shoulders brushed. "What happens next?"

Robert shrugged. "Now we wait." For Silas. For Phaedon. For whatever.

"He's just a kid," Glenn said quietly.

"Yeah. I don't know what Phaedon was thinking sending him in." Robert tilted his head upwards and frowned at the sky. "Unless he didn't know we'd have people watching. It's not something we usually do with the families of the newly bitten. Usually, it doesn't matter." He crossed his arms and the frown deepened. "Or he didn't care if Austin got caught. Phaedon's sort of a sink or swim kind of a guy." Robert turned the puzzle in his head and tried to think about the situation from all the possible angles. Could Phaedon have wanted us to catch him? What could he possibly hope to gain from that? Unless the kid has some ability we don't know about. Hmm, we should ask him.

Glenn cleared his throat and Robert blinked a couple of times. "Oh, uh, sorry about that," Robert apologized. "I got caught up thinking."

"Yes. I noticed," Glenn pursed his lips and crossed his arms over his chest. The sweatshirt and sweatpants hung on his lean frame and Robert had a sudden urge to pull the clothes off. "Is this what you really look like?" Glenn asked the question with a frown and reached out to touch Robert's chin. "Is this really you?"

"The scar's real. I can feel that. All of them." He touched the scar at his throat automatically and then dropped his hand.

"What do you see when you look in a mirror?" Glenn's fingers were working their way under Robert's shirt.

"Whatever the last person who looked at me saw." Robert stepped closer to Glenn and breathed in his scent. Can't have sex on the patio. Marion will be pissed.

"Wow." Glenn began tracing his hands along the scars on Robert's belly, back, and chest.

Robert shrugged and then leaned forward until he could nip Glenn's neck. "You have any interest in sticking around Minneapolis?"

Glenn went still. "You can make that decision?"

"No." Robert said it quickly so there was no confusion. I'm not playing a game. "I can make a request. But there's not much point to asking if you don't want to stay. I wasn't kidding about it being boring."

"Perhaps you could train me to feed on sex. I am new to it." There was a sharp edge in the words even though Glenn purred the words.

Robert caught Glenn's wrists and pulled back. "I've no interest in being your trainer."

"Why not?" Glenn pulled his hands free and stepped away.

"We've got rules about trainers and their trainees. No dating. No fucking unless it's for training. It's tricky enough teaching someone to feed on sex, or anger or whatever, without trying to date at the same time." Robert lifted his hands up and shrugged. "If you need training, you go to someone else."

Glenn walked over to the metal table and chairs that occupied one side of the patio. As he sat, he shook his head and sighed. "You people and your rules."

"Pff." Robert made a dismissive noise. "Like the courts have fewer rules. Half of 'em you can't even talk about!"

Glenn laughed at that and rested his chin on one fist. "So I can stay if all I want is to fuck you silly?"

"Like I said, Silas has the final say. But," Robert shrugged and smiled, "you've got my vote. And if you need training, I know some people in the area who might work."

"No." Glenn waved his free hand in the air. "I already passed Silas' little tests. I was just," Glenn lifted and dropped one shoulder, "playing."

"Well, if you want to play, you should get me to tell you the story of the one and only recruit I ever trained." The memory made Robert wince.

"Challenge accepted!" Glenn clapped his hands and then rubbed them together. "Now let's get the hell out of here. I've got plans for you." He pushed himself gracefully to his feet.

Robert couldn't stop the pleased smile spreading across his face. Glenn's answering grin, though, punched him right in the chest. He can read my face. God, I hope that lasts. Robert reached out and tugged Glenn closer until their lips met.

###

####  About the Author

Check out my other work at my Smashwords Page:

_Bitten_ (novel)

_Addicted_ (novel)

_7_ (vignettes)

_Ensnared by Magic_ (novel)

Want to see images of Silas, Edie, Mark and Callie? Want to be notified when the next book comes out? Check out my website.

****

####  Sample Chapter

#### From Poisoned by Deceit, Book 4 of "The One Rises"

Available August 1st, 2014

Edie stared at the house in front of her. After things had ended so badly with Asad, she'd never expected to set foot in his mother's house again. The homes on this street were fairly modest by Berkeley standards, though every place had a well-manicured garden. Even the apartment building down the block, with its peeling salmon colored paint, had well-tended trees in front.

The house had dark brown shingles and a set of red, wooden stairs that led up to the second floor entrance. At street level, on the left hand side, was a garage door with golden yellow and pale pink tiles on the top half. On the right hands side was a small garden filled with spiky succulents and a lemon tree.

With Callie and Silas flanking her, Edie headed up the stairs. Thank god I got Hatter to stay put. It had been a battle, but there was no way she was going to face down Asad's mother for the first time since the incident with her magically bound stable by her side. Edie knocked on the door briskly and the rubbed her chilled hands together. The sun was setting and there was a cold, brisk November wind.

When the door open, Edie blinked in surprise. In the four years since Edie had seen her last, Makeda Dibaba hadn't changed much. In fact, as far as Edie could tell, time hadn't added another wrinkle to Makeda's long, narrow face. The look the older woman sent over the three of them dripped with disdain.

Edie dipped her head respectfully and murmured the woman's most formal title quietly, "Priestess Dibaba." As the coven leader of the Bay area enclave and a member of the West Coast High Tribunal, Makeda was among the more powerful witches in the NAFT. Edie was relieved when both Silas and Callie echoed her movements.

"Edith. Silas." Makeda stepped back from the door and waved them inside. Wearing a loose white cotton skirt and matching top, Makeda's netala was wrapped artfully around her shoulders.

The house hadn't changed either. The built-in bookshelves and hardwood floors still gleamed and the Edie was pretty sure the low couches and bright red cushions in the living room were the same. As they entered the eat-in kitchen, Edie inhaled discreetly. The earthy, spicy smell of Makeda's cooking was still there. The house made Edie feel as if the past four years had suddenly evaporated.

Makeda's air magic brushed past Edie on a hot gust of wind. Callie made a small, distressed sound and doubled over. The air witch's gaze snapped to the younger woman.

Shit. Shit. This was going bad much too quickly. I told him that girl should stay in Betsy. Though she couldn't fault Silas for wanting to avoid leaving Mark, Hatter, and Callie alone together for too long. That, too, could go bad very quickly.

Silas was bent over Callie, one hand on the back of her neck, "what is wrong?"

"Is she about to lose control?" Makeda stood up from her kitchen table and Edie felt another gust of air blow past her.

"Why don't you pour more power into the room, lady, and see if you can split my skull in two?" Callie's words were muffled, but the venom was unmistakable.

"Take her out of here, Silas." Edie jerked her head at the door. It would have been better to have Silas here with her, but pissing Makeda off when Callie lost control wasn't productive either.

Once Callie and Silas were gone, Edie turned back to face Makeda. "We are just here to help, Priestess." Edie remained formal though she and the air witch had known one another for years.

"How you dare you bring a novice into my home!" Makeda's face was compressed into hard lines and her eyes glittered with suppressed anger.

Edie dropped her eyes to the floor and tried to let her embarrassment and resentment flow through her. It was difficult not to squirm with the feelings. "Do you wish us to leave?" She straightened her head and, with a chill, realized that she'd sounded just like Silas. The words had just popped out. An ugly little thought blossomed in her head.

Makeda made a disgusted noise and then said, "the Seer said you were necessary."

Has Silas been playing me all along? Has he hooked me somehow? She began cataloguing her feelings and wished she had her diary with her. Even after all this time, I still don't know anything about him. Is he really the Seer's mouthpiece? Or does he belong to someone else? Gabriel? Guilt came along with the fear. How can I even think that? He's saved my life so many times. What if he's developing a new ability and doesn't know it? That thought felt less like betrayal. I need to write that down. "Do you have a pen?" Edie asked and then felt a red-hot scald of shame that she'd asked it out loud.

A glass was suddenly hurtling towards her. Edie ducked to one side with a surprised sound and some of the water splashed against her leg.

"Pay attention when I yell at you!" Makeda bellowed. The other woman was panting and her face contorted into rage.

Edie burst into tears. Her chest felt like a giant was squeezing her around the ribcage and her breath shuddered as she sobbed. "Sorry," she choked out and the effort made her cry even harder. Edie dropped into a squat, pressed her forearms against her legs, and buried her face in her hands. I can't do this. If Silas is using me... I can't. Edie didn't even know where the thought had come from, but it was lodged in her brain like a knife. There's too much I don't know about him.

Makeda's hand on her back startled her, but Edie couldn't get it together to say or do anything. She just crouched there while Makeda rubbed her back and made soothing sounds. It was comfort Edie didn't deserve. I almost killed your son. The thought made a fresh gush of tears spurt out her eyes.

"I didn't mean to do it." Edie choked out. It wasn't the apology she had hoped she'd have a chance to offer up.

"Which is why I didn't press for your execution." Makeda said flatly, though her hand continued to make soothing circles on Edie's back. "Come on, girl, get up. I'll make us some tea."

Makeda's fingers were strong and demanding as they wrapped around Edie's upper arm and pulled her to her feet. "Go on, sit."

Edie slid into a chair and tried to get her breathing under control. She listened to clacking sounds of Makeda putting a kettle on the stove and pulling out dishes.

"Here." Makeda dropped a kitchen towel on the table.

"Thank you." Edie whispered and wiped her face with the towel. "Do witches never lose control? Have their power come in spurts?" Edie sighed even as she asked the question. Makeda would never answer her.

"Asad didn't tell you." It wasn't a question. Makeda set two cups down on the table and the scent of cloves and cinnamon wafted into the air.

Edie shook her head. "He kept the witches' secrets. He must have told you that."

"And yet, he told you that we keep secrets on purpose." Makeda said quietly.

Edie pressed the towel into her face to give herself a moment to consider Makeda's point. Finally, she said, "I suppose that's true."

Makeda sighed. "It is not the same for us. I told you that, when Asad brought you home to meet me. I told you that you could never be sure you could keep him safe from your power."

"So you did." Edie gave up trying to regain control of herself and the conversation. Blowing her nose into the kitchen towel, she eyed the other woman warily. "What happens now?"

"You will find my grandson and get out of my city. Understand?" The hard edge of Makeda's gaze had returned.

Edie nodded. "Yes."

"Good, then I will tell you what I know."

