

The Silhouette's Prisoner

By

Sherry Zeng and Katherine Chou

SMASHWORDS EDITION

* * * * *

PUBLISHED BY:

Sherry Zeng on Smashwords

The Silhouette's Prisoner

Copyright © 2013 by Sherry Zeng and Katherine Chou

Thank you for downloading this ebook. It remains the copyrighted property of the author and may not be reproduced, scanned, or distributed for any commercial or non-commercial use without permission from the author. Quotes used in reviews are the exception. No alteration of content is allowed. If you enjoyed this book, then encourage your friends to download their own copy.

Your support and respect for the property of this author is appreciated.

This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. The characters are productions of the author's imagination and used fictitiously.

Kids Reading Material

*****

THE SILHOUETTE'S PRISONER

*****

Chapter 1 - Sharon-Running Away From a Large Silhouette

"Here I go again." I mumbled quietly to myself. I took a deep breath as I stepped into the alleyway between my apartment house and my friends. Every night for a week, I had to cross this dirty, slender path between the two tall buildings to work on a group project. Even though my warm jacket protected me from the snow crushing beneath my weight, I shivered and quickened my pace.

I wished Catie, my twin, were here. She was the brave one of the family. But then, she would just argue or tease me. Again, that disturbing dream came back to me as I reached the midpoint of the alleyway. As usual when I was crossing this alleyway, my heart started to jump faster than normal. I suddenly felt that someone was watching me, so I looked back just in time to hear an unusual footstep trailing behind me.

"Oh, no!" I thought. This was what I was afraid would happen. Without another thought, I broke into a run.

"You're almost there, only five more yards." I encouraged myself as my heart became uncontrollable and my lungs burst open. Behind me, the footsteps got louder and louder. I glanced back only long enough to make out the blurry silhouette of a large person.

Now that person was so close that I could feel the hot breath pounding against my neck. I was getting closer from escaping this alleyway and the stranger. Four feet away, three feet, two feet...

Suddenly, the mysterious stranger grabbed my hoodie and pulled me back. I let out a shrill scream and managed to head butt my stalker before breaking free. Preparing to run, I slipped on a patch of ice and tried in vain to get back up. The stranger grabbed me again this time, and wrapped a thick smelly cloth around my mouth. I was thrown in a nearby convertible, my left leg bumping into the door. The last thing I remembered before the car took off was me thinking, "The nightmare became real."

Chapter 2 - Catie-So the Door Slammed...

"Bye, Sharon! Good luck with your science project. Don't get an F on that stupid Endangered Animals topic of yours!" I waved goodbye to my twin sister as she grabbed her coat and her 11" by 11" poster board. Sharon glared at me, hurt. I glared at her back. Well, her friends would only need her to help on the writing part of the project. After all, she won a writing contest! However, I'm the one who is good at researching.

On the way out the door, she hesitated.

"Um...are you sure you can't, well, come with me?" she asked hopefully, avoiding my eye.

"Well, no. You know that very well." I replied glancing at our seven year old brother who was focusing on a puzzle. Then I looked at the essay I was working on for Social Studies. "I have to watch over Andy, and you know how much he hates leaving in middle of Sudoku. Besides, the dream you had last night about getting kidnapped in the alleyway was only a nightmare. Seriously, you don't have to be a scaredy-cat all the time!"

"Well, fine. I'll try to be brave. You would have been scared if it were you. You probably don't want to come with me because you are scared too!!!" Sharon snapped, slowly walking out, "Bye!"

"Bye!" I angrily echoed, "Make sure to call when you get there. If you ever do." I snickered.

She stared at me with her eyes narrowed and a frown on her face.

"You looked funny with your face all red. Are you a tomato?" Andy naively said to Sharon while he looked up from his Sudoku.

She turned around. The door slammed shut loudly.

He innocently commented, "Where is Sharon going, and why does she sound scared? Why are you guys even twins?? You don't act or look alike." He ruffled his dirty blonde hair thoughtfully.

I groaned. "I hate it when you ask so many random questions at once. One, Sharon is going to her friend's house to work on a project, and she is going through a scary, dark alleyway. Two, we are fraternal twins. That means we don-" I replied, or tried to.

"I know what that is," Andy responded, acting like a brat, "Now I need to concentrate. Please go away. I want Big Sissy, not you."

"Then why did you ask in the first place?" I spat at him, narrowing my eyes and flipping my dark brown hair. I always loved my beautiful long waves. Sharon had the same type of hair, but she had ugly reddish hair. Of course, she thought my hair was ugly.

"Sissy 2 (Andy calls me that)." Andy looked at me again. "Why are you so mean? I wish Sissy 1 (He calls Sharon that) was here."

Though it hurt my feelings, I knew it was true. Sharon was the shy, caring one that Andy wanted. Not me.

Chapter 3 - Andy-I LOVE Ice cream!!!!

Hi! I am Andy Walker. I am seven. I love ice cream and puzzles. I am very smart! My IQ is 156! My sissies said that I had the worst pronunciation and grammar skills ever. Well, I am so sad. Sissy 1 isn't here anymore. I want her to tease me about my immatureness and bad grammar now.

My sister got taken away by mean people for two weeks now. I remember my two sissies talking. Then the conversation became heated, whatever that means. Sissy1 walked out with her poster board. I looked up from a hard Sudoku. I asked Sissy 2 a question or two. She answered them. Then, I turned back to my Sudoku. After a long time, Sissy1 had not called. Next thing I knew, Sissy 2 was calling the Smiths. That was where Sissy 1 was heading. My sister sounded very worried even though they were enemies. I think that deep down in her heart, she is a caring older twin. Turns out, Sissy 1 never ever made it. Sissy 2 frantically called everyone. Sissy 1 wasn't anywhere!! Mommy and Daddy were called home. The police came. That is all I remember of that crazy day!

My family was all very sad. I cried. And then I cried again. Then, my mommy sobbed. My daddy and sister cried silently. The police people with super cool cars invited my parents to a place far away to attend a program called "What to Do Best with Missing Children." I have to stay home with Sissy 2. Worst of all, the person who is supposed to cook us dinner is Mrs. Johns, our neighbor. Her spaghetti tastes like ropes! I know what ropes taste like. I accidentally chewed on one because I thought that it was vanilla licorice. But that was when I was little, like two weeks ago. Anyway, I am so sad. I want Big Sis. Where is she???

Chapter 4 - Sharon-Where am I??

Tweet tweet. I awoke to the sound of birds chirping outside my window. My head was throbbing and my legs screamed with pain. Pain? Just then, the whole episode from that night flashed into my mind, and I instantly sat up.

"Whoa!" I gasped with awe at my surroundings.

I was in the coolest room ever. I was in a canopy bed with royal blue sheets. The dresser across from me had shiny knobs and was a deep cherry wood. Book cases twelve feet high had filled the rest of the room and the windows filled a whole wall, their beautiful curtains matching the bedding. Best of all, an old fashioned clock and a cool shelf filled the space above the lace pillows. Below a nearby bookcase, there was a comfy armchair with a Mac Air in the seat. Toward the window, I saw the neatest grand piano ever, with a chandelier just above it.

Just then the French door opened, and a little skinny boy with big gray eyes and a thick mop of brown hair sneaked in. His dirty trousers had many holes and scratches on them. Good. I needed to hear an explanation from someone on what the heck was going on.

"Why am I here?" I blurted out to him.

The boy–his name tag said David–ignored me. When he got close enough, he whispered, "You need to escape fast, before she comes in. Here is a map of this place, with hidden passageways."

He handed me a rolled up paper that looked simply like a large copy paper. I was amazed. Not only because his words were so scary, but also because he had better pronunciation than by brother. I looked up from the map to ask the kid the million questions in my mind, but when I looked up, he was gone. Replacing him was a note (in an almost illiterate first grader's handwriting) on my bed that read: "Putt dee maap and notee in yor poket. Dont sho enyone. –David"

Chapter 5 - Andy- I Want Sissy1!!!

I got tired of waiting for Sissy1 to come home so I went out while Sissy2 was sleeping. I went to look for my sister. I took two thick jackets, ten dollars, fifteen candy bars and eleven sandwiches all in a backpack. I put on my tennis shoes. I crept down the bedrooms and stumbled across the familiar hallway.

When I got to Mrs. Johns' apartment door, I started tip-toeing. After all, she was supposed to watch over me and Sissy2. Obviously, she was going to freak out when she found me missing at breakfast. It was going to be much, much worse if she would find me sneaking past her front door, carrying a large, heavy backpack. It would be so hard to create an excuse.

I don't think she will believe me when I say that that I'm going hiking in the woods. Or that I'm going camping in the park. It's in the city after all! Maybe she'll believe me when I say I am going to walk around the city all by myself, and I'm going to be very cold and need that sandwiches and candy bars because I'm hungry. Hey, you never know! Hopefully, I'm not too loud.

Chapter 6 - David- The Big Bad Mommy

My name is David, and like I told Sharon, I am six years old. My mommy kidnapped a girl to keep her company, or at least that was what she told me. But the real reason was that she wanted the girl to start liking her as a mom, and then she would willingly do whatever Mommy told her to do. Maybe Mommy would make Sharon her slave! She is sure crazy!

I don't know why Mommy needed another slave. She had around fifty already! All of her slaves were teenagers she abducted about ten years ago. Mommy forced them to work in her grape field. She lives in a mansion in a huge forest, so policemen can't find her and accuse her of forced slavery. In case they do, Mommy made fake ID cards, birth certificate and name tags for all the workers–even me. The ID cards came in handy: when workers got injured, Mommy had someone take them to the hospital with the IDs. That way, even the hospitals got fooled.

I'm the only slave that mommy did not kidnap. I was once her favorite and only son, but then she started hating me. It's a long story.

As Mommy's personal slave, I knew everything that was going on. I remember serving her coffee one morning and saw her reading a newspaper article about the winners of the National Kid's Writing Faire. She read that a girl named Sharon Walker won first place. Mommy had a sneaky look on her face.

The newspaper even included a biography of her life! Sharon also appeared on television. That night, I saw the biography on T.V. and learned that Sharon had two siblings called Andy and Catie, and all three of them had unique bright emerald green eyes. Sharon seemed like one of those girls with a great personality. Then I got a horrible feeling when I remembered Mom's sneaky look. Maybe Mommy wanted to kidnap her!!!

Then, I remembered carrying her dinner tray filled with garlic bread, a jug of water, funnel cake and a slice of five topping pizza up the stairs to her room. No one answered the door, so I went in. No one was there. I asked the head worker, Bill, where Mommy was. He said that she was in the city. Huh? Mommy never went into the city before. Was she going to do what I think she was going to do? At least I could take a break until she came back.

Four hours later (around midnight), I was woken by a rumbling sound. I looked outside my dirty window and saw a blue convertible parked outside our moat. Mommy stumbled out, dragging someone with her. I quickly jumped out of my torn beddings, and ran out my smelly room. My room was on the sixth and highest tower. I welcomed Mommy and pretended not to see the unconscious girl in her arms. Inside I was shocked and sad.

"Oh no!" I had mumbled to myself. "Mommy actually did what I thought she was going to do." I then saw the girl's silky red brown hair and her familiar face. This was Sharon!

Mommy then ordered me to clean the fancy room on the sixth and highest floor. She laid the girl, (who I recognized as the book winner) down on the canopy bad. We left the room quietly.

Mommy must have hit poor Sharon hard, because she did not wake up the next morning or the next. Luckily, when Doctor Kittywitty (who was actually Mommy's sister) came in, she said that Sharon was fine. She was only in a coma.

Chapter 7 - Catie-That Little Brat!

Bright sunlight streaked into my window. I glanced at my alarm clock. Huh? It was only 8am; I usually would sleep until 11am during winter break. Almost no one can wake me up, in fact, only tickling that one spot on my foot can wake me. I just lay there trying to sleep when I heard the door slam. Sharon?!

I jumped out of my bed and ran to the door, only to find Andy tiptoeing down our apartment hall to the elevator. I slipped on my fuzzy Uggs, and ran after Andy. Luckily, wore my socks to bed. Unluckily, Uggs aren't the best shoes to run in!

"Andy, come back! Where do you think you are going?" I screamed after him. He did not stop, so I had to chase him down the stairs, through the main exit, and through the crowd of our busy New York street. Boy, did we attract attention! Imagine a teenage girl in her fuzzy pajamas chasing a little boy with a humongous backpack. That's us!! When Andy finally stopped to rest and catch his breath, I finally caught up to him, but we were in the middle of nowhere.

Chapter 8 - Sharon-Who Is She??

Heavy footsteps came in my direction. I swiftly stuffed the map and note into my pocket, and pretended to sleep. Hearing the door open, I opened a crack of my eye. The image I saw was a woman, slightly on the heavy side. Ok, I'm not going to lie, she was obese.

"Wakey wakey!!" she shouted while carefully nudging me, "I already woke up David!!"

"Ahhh!!!!" I screamed. The face I was staring into was filled with bright but pretty makeup. Wait... never mind, those long lashes, red lips, and pink cheeks weren't makeup, they were real.

"I am Mrs. Williams. Call me Jacque or mother. Great to see you!!"

Call me smart, but I decided to play along just to see what would happen, advancing the weird questions one at a time. After all, she was a stranger, and probably the large silhouette I saw that kidnapped me. I had to be cautious.

Chapter 9 - Andy- YAWN!

I am mad. Sissy 2 yelled at me for running off. Luckily, when I cried, she stopped. Now we are at a freeway surrounded by miles of golden wheat fields. They were all dry, so they were actually brown. I was only to be descriptive. My teacher said that was important. I wanted to ask the farmers for help but Sissy2 disapproved.

"You never know what they might do." She scowled at me. "They might pretend to be friendly and invite us to their houses. The next thing you know, they would refuse to let us out again. Maybe we would be stuck as their servant for life!"

She had watched too many movies.

In the past few hours, we asked every car (so far there was only one) passing by for directions back to our house. They just stared at us. I need water. I need food. I lost all the food and water I packed on the run. (I always knew that I should zip up my backpack more carefully.) Most of all, I need Sissy1! It was almost dark, and I need my comfy bed! I cried again, and Sissy2 just looked at me and sighed.

Finally it was too dark to do anything else so I yawned and curled up on the edge of the road. Sissy2 didn't look like she wanted to sleep, but soon, she had drowsed off. I looked at her and decided to sleep too.

Chapter 10 - Catie- Enter the Vampire

Someone was poking me on the feet. I giggled and opened my eyes. It was Andy. I looked around. Where were we? Oh yeah, my idiot brother ran away and we are totally lost at the moment. I checked my watch. It was two a.m.! It was still dark, but I could make out the shapes of my surroundings.

"Sissy, there are still some cars on the road, let's ask them for help." Andy whispered to me.

I sighed. Since I am already awake, I guess I will.

An hour passed with no results.

We had stumbled to a rest at the edge of the road. What we had to do was keep begging for people to help up.

"Arrrgh!" I shouted of desperation and of coldness. Andy silently popped down next to me. By now, there were hardly any cars on the road, and I felt the risk of all the dangers of being alone. I still couldn't believe that Andy ran off without a map or any idea where to go. Besides, how could this brat had run this far without stopping?

Just then, a sleek black convertible rumbled into view, and I forced myself upward to wave to the convertible. Surprisingly, the driver pulled to the side, and rolled down the window.

"What the wha-" I almost blurted out. That guy was just plain creepy. He dramatically took off his sunglasses (Wait, why would he have sunglasses at night?), and we could see that he had pale skin and bright blue eyes. His greasy black hair was combed back. Seriously, that guy would have been mistaken for a vampire if he hadn't been wearing a modern brown leather jacket.

Even creepier, the first thing he said was "I know you! You are Catie and Andy, and your sister is missing! Hop on board!" He gestured to the convertible.

"How–how do you know our names, and how do you know about our sister?" I stuttered, trying to line up the dozen questions in my mind.

"Whatever. Just hop in." he answered impatiently back. I was about to spurn his offer, but Andy was already bouncing in the backseat. How did he even get there? I made a helpless attempt to grab him out, but somehow ended up in the car myself.

"Are you ready?" that Vampire Dude asked with a smirk.

"But–wait..." I began, reaching for the door.

"Get buckled up!" Vampire Dude shouted, and he zoomed off at full speed.

Chapter 11 - Sharon –Jacque's Story

"Ok, so why am I here, and where am I?" I asked Jacque confused.

"Well, you are in my lovely house, and you are here because I want you to be here," Jacque answered.

"But, you aren't answering my–" I attempted to ask.

"Now, hush up, listen to my story," Jacque shushed me.

JACQUE'S STORY

"Once upon a time, like one or two decades ago, I was married. My husband's name was Harry Williams. We were very happy together and became rich by making and selling wine in California, where one of our first factories still is. A few years later I became a proud parent of an adorable son. My husband, on the other hand, was not proud at all. The problem was that he wanted a daughter. He wanted a daughter to take to father-daughter dances and take pictures of cute tea parties when she was little. I named the little baby David. Harry didn't even try to name David. I got annoyed, but then, I knew that my loving husband would get over it. Or at least I thought he would.

"As David grew up, my funny husband drifted farther and farther from me. Oh, I need to go to work, I have a meeting, he would say. He always had excuses. Harry didn't help with David at all. I rarely saw him anymore. I raised David by myself. Then, one dark, autumn morning, he secretly took all his belongings and his BMW. I remember waking up and not finding him anywhere. When David made vroom zoom noises, I knew he had left. Of course I married again, but it is not the same. And it's all that stupid David's fault. I decided to find the perfect daughter and lure my husband back. I observed many pre-teens, and you seem to be the perfect girl. I am also very lonely, so you'll be my company."

"Are you done yet?" David peeked in.

"No! Shut up and go away!!" Jacque screamed.

David closed the door. I could hear him whimpering. The next thing I heard was him running down the stairs or hallway.

"Never mind that," Jacque sweetly turned to me, "You see, I want you to live with me. It might seem bad, but it will be alright. You will get anything you want, anything."

"I want to go home," I requested.

"Well, anything but that. You can never go home." Jacque sternly replied.

Chapter 12 - Andy- Always Share!

I don't like the car driver. He had what Big Sissy would call a "sneaky look". He was up to something. When he told us to get on his vehicle, I knew he was a good guy, because he let us ride his no-top car. How nice, he is sharing his car with us! Only good guys would share. That was what my teacher had told us. I jumped eagerly into the vehicle.

Sissy2 didn't look happy, but when she tried to grab me out, I dragged her in.

At first when he told us to get in, he looked worried, confused, and rushed. Now, he looked like he didn't have a care in the world. I hoped that I could find Sissy 1, and go back home quickly.

Chapter 13 - Catie- Poor Hungry Brat!

The ride was a daze; I don't exactly remember how it went. I was irritated because it was a hard and long day. I started to think of Mrs. Johns and how worried she might be. Then I had a thought. Since Mrs. Johns was one of those elderly women who was noisy about everything, she probably told the police and all of our neighbors that we were gone. She might have reasonably had us put on the first page of the newspaper explaining that we were missing, along with Sharon's information. Maybe that's how this vampire-looking-dude knew our names!

I was too tired and hungry to protest to our driver. And instead of jumping off the car and escaping, I just closed my eyes and tried to fall asleep to the rhythm of the car. I was about to fall asleep when...

"I'm HUNGRY. Can you give us food? I SAID I'M HUNGRY!!!" Andy shouted. The Vampire Dude ignored him.

Finally, Andy started to cry noisily. The Vampire Dude carelessly threw some bottled water, canned nuts, crackers, and bagels into our laps. By then I was so starved, I didn't care if they were tainted or not. Right after I finished my food, I drifted asleep, and dreamt of bloodthirsty vampires.

Chapter 14 - Sharon-Breakfast Served By a Six Year Old

As Jacque left the room and locked the door, I panicked. So, I can never leave this comfortable, but caged place, I thought to myself. What about Catie or Andy or Mom or Dad? Will I never see them again? Am I going to stay here forever with the silhouette that kidnapped me?

In the middle of my thoughts, I heard a scream.

"Ahhhhh!!!!! Please don't hit me!! No!!!!" A voice yelled. It sounded like David.

"Why did you interrupt my talk with the new victim, well, girl??? You must be punished!!!" A voice I was sure was Jacque's boomed.

Wow, she must be so sad of the loss of her husband. She hurt her only son!

Then, I heard the sickening sound of a slap and the sad noise of crying. I cringed and buried my head under my pillow. What kind of place is this??

"Go bring your new sister some late breakfast. She just woke up from a coma, so be careful. I was afraid she wouldn't make it," the Jacque boomed again.

"Ok," David meekly answered.

A few minutes later, David stumbled in with a large tray. On the tray were syrupy chocolate pancakes, steamed eggs, crispy bacon, a cheese bagel, milk, and orange juice. How can that six year old carry all that??

"Here you go!" David said, feigning cheerfulness.

"Are you alright? Did Jacque hit you?" I asked him.

"Yeah," he answered, looking down, "Do you remember the map I gave you?"

"Oh, yeah! What should I do with it?" I questioned, puzzled.

David leaned over and whispered, "Create different escape routes. I already got a few. We are going to escape." Then, he grabbed my cheese bagel and hungrily stuffed it up.

I took out the map and looked up to ask him why. He was already gone though.

Chapter 15 - Andy-The Magical Castle...with Alligators

Sissy 2 fell asleep, so did I. When I woke up, I was in a front of a huge castle surrounded by walls. We were parked near a moat. I think it had alligators! Surrounding the moat were miles of trees tall as the castle. They even camouflaged the dirt road! I shook Sissy 2 awake and showed her the castle. She only demanded the driver to take us home. The guy she called "Vampire Dude" successfully calmed her down and explained to us that he followed Sissy's kidnappers here, but was too scared to go on. He gave us climbing ropes and told us to follow him to climb the walls. He said that was the only way in. I was happy. I like climbing. I went to a summer camp before that taught me how to climb walls.

Actually, I was confused. Why didn't he call the police about the kidnappers instead of bringing us in? Why did we have to climb the wall above the moat? And why must we climb the walls that early? I checked Sissy 2's watch. It was only four in the morning!

Chapter 16 - Catie-Scissors

Looking back, I still can't believe that I believed his lame story for an excuse! Anyway, Andy and I swung the ropes over the walls, with Vampire's instructions. We three climbed without another word. I still wished that I had seen the scissors in his pocket.

"We are almost there." I encouraged myself. I stole a glance at Andy, expecting him to be scared, but he looked excited. The walls weren't long or high like the Great Wall which I saw in a video my Social Studies teacher showed us, but were still lengthy enough for a seven year old, or pretty much anyone, to get hurt from a fall. Not that I cared if Andy fell. I looked down and gulped. Beneath me was a group of alligators in the moat, waiting for food to fall in. I looked down to see a rowboat. At least if I would fall, I would have more chances of falling into the boat.

"Maybe this isn't such a good idea." I mumbled to myself. I was about to tell Vampire Dude that we should just tell the police instead of acting like a spy when Andy nudged my arm.

"Uh, Sissy...look." Andy whimpered as he pointed. I followed his finger to find Vampire Dude already at the top of the wall with a big pair of sharp scissors in his hand. Oh, no, was he really going to do what I think he was going to do?

Chapter 17 - Andy-Cut the Rope

I knew that Vampire Dude was going to cut our ropes. I knew he was a bad boy. Catie and I were just staring at him waiting for him to make his move. He raised the scissors, brought them down, and stopped. Hey, that was like the game Cut The Rope! We were the candy, and the alligators were Om Nom. Vampire Dude was the player. I love playing that game, not being that game though!

Chapter 18 - Sharon-Exploring...the Room!

I spent the day undisturbed except for some delicious lunch and dinner. David always disappeared with some of my food before I could ask him any questions. Contented, I explored the room and found very curious things. The bookcase was full of weird books. Some books included: How to Become Rich By Grapevines, The Art of Growing Grapes, The Secret to Marketing and Selling, and The Guide to Wine. Then, when I searched in my cherry wood desk, I found a dirty, battered diary in the secret compartment. Almost all the entries had to do with the bad sides of David. Strangely enough, the entries were describing when David was small and little. Near the end of the diary, the handwriting was too hard to read. I made out the words: "run away", "suicide", and "hate". I had no idea what they meant, but I kept them in the back of my mind.

When I went to the closet, I was very delighted. Clothes of all colors and sizes crowded the walk-in closet. I was so happy to change out of my dirty, ripped clothes. In a corner, I found a few suitcases. On them was: Property of Harry Williams. Inside the suitcase were some papers that described how the wine was selling 9 years ago.

I was very confused. Why were some of Jacque's husband's belongings here? Wait, was this comfortable, cozy bedroom, Harry's old bedroom??

Chapter 19 - Catie- The Hungry Alligators

"I really am the second husband of the woman who kidnapped your sister." Vampire Dude declared, "She read in the newspapers that you two were missing, and thought that you were going to rescue your sister. She wanted to see you dead, so she asked me to do the job. This is where your sister is going to stay forever and where you are going to die." He said that all expressionlessly and monotonously.

We helplessly held our breath as he prepared himself to cut the ropes. To me, it happened all so slowly. He raised his cutter again, and brought it down, down... and stopped again.

"I'm sorry." He whispered regretfully.

The next thing I remembered was slicing through open air...

Thud! Huh? My back felt like it was exploding with pain when I opened my eyes. I was conscious enough to realize that I was on a rowboat. Andy landed next to me.

"It is all your fault! Why did you have to drag me into the convertible? Why did you run away?" I angrily yelled.

Andy started to talk, "I'm sorry, Sissy 2! I didn't know that the convertible was ba-"

He didn't finish.

"LOOK WHAT YOU DID!! IT IS ALLYOUR FAULT FOR RUNNING AWAY!" I screamed. He was so stupid! It was all his fault for trying to "save" Sharon. Now this boy got us in big trouble: we were stuck on a rowboat with alligators all around!! IT WAS ALL HIS FAULT!!

But what I did next was all my blame. Andy stood up, rubbing his head in pain from the fall. Then I pushed him. Hard.

Splash! I heard Andy cry out loud as he landed in the water. Wait... what was that thing behind him!? I hobbled to the boat's edge to see Andy thrashing in the moat, with something spiky following him. Oh no! I gasped.

"Andy!" I shouted, reaching a hand for him to grab. Andy tried in vain to swim toward me, but the mud colored alligator had bitten him by his jeans, and was pulling him down. Andy struggled to me as part of his pants ripped and he broke free. He thrashed so close, our finger tips were touching. He was almost there when...

Snap! Andy was swallowed whole by the alligator. I did not have time to feel shocked, because suddenly, I heard steps behind me. Before I could see who it was, I felt as if a two hundred pound table had crashed into my head and all went dark.

Chapter 20 - Sharon-Pink Lemonade

I spent the next few days in comfortable leisure. I opened the Mac Air and played games. I wished I could open my email, but only found that all communication was cut off for me. I guess I couldn't contact my family then.

The room was completely sealed off. Behind the window was fake wallpaper of trees. It was moving and seemed like it was actually the outside, but it wasn't the real deal. When I looked around, there was no phone. Oh well, I guess I really was in a comfortable prison.

I shook the door open and jangled the door knob. Guess what? I was locked in. I decided to lie down on my bed and look at the ceiling. I noticed a very small camera in two corners of the room. Wow, this place had very high security.

"Go get me a pink lemonade. NOW! Oh yeah, and go do the laundry and wash the dirty dishes. OR ELSE!!" Jacque's voice screeched.

"Yes Madame!" I heard David squeak.

"Also, go take care of Sharon first. Make sure that she has all that she needs. GO NOW!!!" Jacque yelled.

Poor David. This is child abuse!! I wondered what Jacque did all day. Lie in her bed?? Maybe she sat in a comfortable chair and made sure that her wine was sold. One thing was for sure, David did all the unwanted chores. No wonder she was on the heavy side.

"Do you need anything?" David peeked in.

I noticed that he acquired more bruises and looked very scared. I would not want to be him.

"No, I don't need anything," I answered.

"Did you plan the escape routes? Or are you going to stay here forever?" David whispered.

I looked down and thought really well. Should I stay in the expensive, cozy room or go back to my loving and warm family, despite the risks?

"I am not sure," I answered, even though the answer was obvious.

David silently disappeared, again.

Chapter 21 - David-My Momma Is So Fat...

I really want to get out of here. My mommy used to be so sweet to me and she was so slim and pretty!! She always looked as if she had on makeup, but I know that she was naturally gorgeous. Then, stupid daddy ran away, leaving mommy mean and gaining weight.

She married a rich, pale faced vampire looking guy who looked like he wanted to suck my blood. He was rich and loved bad mommy so much. He obeyed her every word. He even built mechanical alligators to capture the intruders that fell into the moat. However, he now looked mad and resentful whenever Mommy told him to do something mean. Hmmm, I wonder why.

I hope Sharon created escape routes. Even though she was shy, she looked very smart and very caring. We needed to get out of here. I know that Mommy would make her a personal slave once Mommy was bored with her.

Chapter 22 - Andy-I'm Alive?!

I never knew how it was like to be eaten by an alligator! At first I was scared. But it was so fun! It didn't even hurt! I remembered me relaxing in the alligator's stomach which included smoothies! At least I think it was smoothies. It was gushy and brown and looked like mud. And instead of being in a cup, it was all over the floor! The alligator's stomach was weirdly shaped like a cage with bars. I hope Catie had fun also!! I want to do it again!! Yay!!!!!!

Chapter 23 - Sharon-The Plan

I have decided. We were going to escape. For the next few days, all the surveillance camera saw was me reading, eating, going to the bathroom, sleeping, or playing on the Mac. David and I changed the images every day. At first, I thought about just hiding in the bathroom and waiting for Jacque to find us gone. Hopefully, she would be so angry that she would run off to find us, leaving the door open. We could then sneak out.

I explained my bathroom plan with David.

"No, there are cameras in the bathroom," David had solemnly said.

"You are just kidding," I replied, convinced that he was just joking.

"Nope!" David said, and pointed them out to me.

"EWWW!!" I shuddered.

Then, Jacque shouted another command, and David left. I found the map of the escape routes and started planning. Well, I had to get out of this room first. The door? Never. The window? Impossible. Now what? Oh I know.....

Chapter 24 - Catie-The Kick

I woke with the musty smell of mold in my nose. It smelled just like the dungeon that I visited in 4th grade. I realized that I was blindfolded and aged up. Where was I? I don't think I was still on the rowboat. Or wait, maybe I was. After all, I could hear waves lapping against the boat.

I managed to rip off my blindfold to see a cute dude steering the rowboat. So he was the person who knocked me unconscious.

"Mmmph..." I asked him, but there was something in my mouth that kept me from talking.

"Hi there, sweetie!" he winked at me. When he dramatically blew his straight brown hair out of his piercing hazel eyes, I knew he was up to no good.

"Oh, now don't you sweet talk to me!!" I snapped back, making the dirty sock in my mouth fall.

"I'm not going to hurt you, I am only taking you to- I mean putting you in a- well, never mind, ok??" He stammered, avoiding my eye.

"Who are you?! Where is my sister?! Why didn't you help me save my brother?!" I screamed at him. I swallowed tears of guilt at the memory of Andy's death.

"I don't know where Sharon is kept and I couldn't save Andy, ok??" He stammered again.

"Well, how do you know my siblings' names? HOW? You have to be working for the mysterious kidnapper. Grrr..." I threw all my anger at him.

He backed away in shock, holding his hands up. Then, he recovered and pulled out a tranquillizer gun. He was too late.

"Oomph!" he cried. "Woe is me." His knees buckled, and he fainted girlishly with his hand on his forehead.

Too bad I had to kick him. He was cute, but he wasn't trustworthy. Surely, he worked for the mysterious person who was holding Sharon against her will. I mean how did he even know my siblings' name??

Chapter 25 - Sharon-Fooooood!

"Ok, so I have a plan. Meet me when you bring me dinner, ok?" I told David.

He nodded and left. I went over the plan in my head. So I would loosen the vent when David got here. Then, we would crawl through the vents and find the right path using the map. I would know I am on the right path if there is light!!! Then, we would crawl out the vent leading outside.

I had perfect tools that David collected. If there was lasers blocking the path, David would turn them off using the password Jacque used. If there were guards, I would use the tranquillizer gun David stole or knock them out. If there was a moat, I would use the self-inflatable boat David found. Then, if there were monsters in the moat, I would either use the raw meat I packed or use the tranquilizer gun. I didn't want my backpack to smell disgusting, so I put the meat in a Tupperware box put in multiple Ziploc Bags. If there were any other problems, I would use a baseball bat to solve them. I also packed a bunch of juice and crackers in case we got hungry.

I went over this plan quietly. I tried to take my mind off the risky plan by playing on the Mac. I listened to songs downloaded in the computer. Then, dinner came. David and I gulped up my delicious and mouthwatering dinner. To take my mind off the nerve-wrecking plan, I focused on food. David ate the 5-cheese pasta, mint chocolate chip ice cream and drank the fresh lemonade. This must be the best meal he had in years. I had the steak, cheese cake, and iced tea. We shared the buffalo wings. They were so good! It was better to savor this dinner. It might be the last one I'd have... no, ignore that thought.

Then, it was time. My heart beat wildly, and I made sure that I had everything. Then, the surveillance camera was set up, and I loosened the air vent. I told David to follow me and we carefully crawled in.

Chapter 26 - Andy- The Bland Room

The adorably cute and very nice alligator threw me up in a dark and surprisingly waterless room. Then he even let me pet his furry spiky head. He then looked dully at me with his gorgeous yellow eyes. I looked around the room. It was barren and was colored gray. I disliked it at once. I smelled the air. It smelled like grapes that went bad. This room was small and felt refrigerated. Also, it was eerily quiet.

The cute and pretty alligator stared at me and crawled out of the bland doors. I sighed happily. Maybe that was what my sisters call "love". I wanted to keep it as a pet and make sure it didn't run away. I wanted to take it on walks and teach it tricks like the doggy I had always wanted. Suddenly, I heard a loud crash! Then, all went dark.

Chapter 27 - David-All the Places I Would Go...

I was so excited to leave this horrid place. I couldn't wait to see the world!!! I wanted to see places like Atlantis, Troy, Heaven, Unlidhet, Far Far Away, Elmo's World, and Space Mountain! I'd never been to those places. I only saw them on TV in the servant quarters. I could not wait! I wanted to explore space and live with the Martians!! I also wanted to visit Mickey Mouse!! I could not wait!! I almost couldn't contain my excitement. I was still happy when carrying Sharon's dinner.

"Is there something wrong with you??" Mommy suspiciously questioned when she passed me in the hallway.

"No," I squealed and I carefully ran away carrying Sharon's dinner.

I was bubbling with excitement when I entered the large bedroom. We shared the food. I brought a tiny bit more because I was eating with Sharon. I brought a whole other meal! Then, Sharon silently and nervously loosened the air vent. She told me to follow her. I hoped she knew what she was doing.

Chapter 28 - Andy-Martian!!!

I sat there on the cold floor wondering where my Sissies were. I shivered under my thin winter jacket. It was way too freezing.

"Hello? I need the heat on." I shouted to the open air. This was not fair! I wanted to play on the alligator. Actually, I didn't want to play with the alligator. He was now a bad boy. He went away! My sissies would call it ditching, but I didn't know what it meant.

I started to cry uncontrollably.

"I want to play on playground! I want to go draw. I don't want sit here all day. I don't even want to dance weirdly, because I do that a lot when I am cold. I want my Big Sissies!!" I whined while doing the hokey pokey.

No one came. I was so sad. Then, someone tied me up from behind. Next, I heard a lump of potatoes being tossed in. It whimpered!!! Next thing I knew, my wish was granted!! I had a friend here!! It barked!! Maybe it was a... umm... Martian!!!

Chapter 29 - Catie-Blonde Burly Guards

I was so proud of myself. I bravely kicked the hot guy cold. When he went down, I grabbed the rows and randomly swung it around trying to steer it. It was very hard. I regretted knocking the guy out. Oh well.

"Woah...." I said as I slipped to the side and the boat suddenly tipped this way and that.

I was trying so hard to steady the tipping boat that I didn't realize that I was approaching the main gate. It had two burly blonde guards that were kissing and flexing their muscles. They stopped when they saw me in that tiny boat coming near and near. The guards saluted me. Then, they gasped and growled in unison when they saw that I was a stranger and that the boy in the boat with me was knocked out.

"Grrr.." they growled again and lifted their meaty arms.

"Uh... Hi?" I stammered as I backed away holding my arms in defense.

"Grrr..." they inched closer and closer.

Then, I felt pain and blacked out.

Chapter 30 - Sharon-Lost At the Wrong Time

David and I crawled through the air vent. I made sure that our tracks were covered.

"Ok. So we first crawl forward, and then turn right at the next turn." I mumbled to myself quietly.

David obediently and silently followed me. We crawled for a while, and then turned. Suddenly, my mind blanked out.

"Good thing I have my map!!"I cheerfully whispered.

I reached into my pocket. It was empty!! I reached into my back pocket. It had a letter in it. Wait what?? A letter?? This wasn't my pair of jeans! Oh no! Hopelessly, I put the map in my jacket pocket. There was nothing in there.

"Oh no, this is terrible!" I quietly cried.

"Is there something wrong?" David innocently asked.

"Well, I either lost or forgot the map. It either fell out of my jeans, or this is the wrong pair." I said ashamed and red faced.

"That is bad," David whispered.

I absent-mindedly handed the letter to David. We started to move around in the vents. The vents were so dusty, narrow, and dark. I looked out an opening, and saw an office. Then, we moved on.

After what seemed like hours, I looked out again. No, this must be wrong. I rubbed my eyes. Yep, it was the same office. It was official. I didn't know where we were going.

Chapter 31 - Andy-Sissy!!!

I couldn't see what the Martian looked like since it was taking too long for my eyes to adjust. The strange friend licked my face. I giggled. It reminded me of a dog. I wondered why.

Suddenly, I heard the lights turn back on. Yay! Sadly, my Martian was only a furry golden and white doggy. The happy thing was that a pretty boy with glowing hazel eyes came in and threw a struggling Sissy 2 in. Two strong and scary men followed.

"See? I knew that you worked for the kidnapper!" Sissy 2 shouted at the boy.

"I'm sorry." The boy lowered his eyes.

"Sure you are!" Sissy2 snapped back. The big boy looked sad. He looked happy again when he saw my little friend.

"Snowy!" he shouted excitedly and the doggy ran to him. "You should not have run away like that! You know how Jacque hates dogs!"

Without another word, he went out of the door with Snowy and the scary men. Then all went dark again.

Chapter 32 - David-Silly Mommy

Sharon sat down very depressed after looking at Mommy's office for the third time, and then turning left instead of right. She took out a Ziploc bag of crackers. We shared them since she could tell that I was hungry.

"I'm thirsty. Do you have something to drink?" I whispered.

Sharon handed me a juice box. I drank it, and finished off the last drop. I got bored, and Sharon just stared and stared and stared. That was when I got the idea to look at the letter Sharon handed me. After all, I was bored! I looked at it. Oh wait, I forgot! I couldn't read that well.

"Sharon, can you read this to me?? Please please please??" I whispered to her.

"Fine," she whispered back, and took the crumpled paper from my outstretched hand.

Dear Plum Company,

I have just ordered a new Plumputer, since my Macbook broke. When I got it, I was so excited. I can finally go back to work, play games, and watch TV shows online!! However, when I opened the cardboard box, it had peanuts instead of packing peanuts. Just so you know, peanuts cannot protect valuable items. Also, the peanuts had little suitcases and were crawling around. It looked like they were packing for a vacation. WHAT ARE THOSE THINGS???

When I cleaned up my computer (it had some peanut butter smeared on it) I opened its sleek cover. And then, instead of a keyboard, it had keys of all kind nailed of a wood board! There were instrument keys, house keys, car keys, and lock keys. What kind of joke is this???

At least when I turned it on, at least the touch screen still worked. When it turned on though, the picture of sugar plum fairies showed up with the picture of a plum. If it is supposed to look cute, I hate it. They screamed, "Touch me, touch me!!" No wonder the computer was so cheap!

Well, here is the most horrid part. The computer mouse was an actual, live mouse!! Do you know some people are afraid of mice? Well, I'm not, but I am disgusted by mice. Ugghh!!!! Please change the product. I demand a refund!!

Very Annoyed,

Jacque Williams

P.S. I hate your company

Sharon cracked a smile. I did too. Mommy seemed very mad in this letter. What she did not know was that the company she bought her computer was from a company that sold prank products for kids to trick each other on April 1st. I wonder why Mommy would fall for that. I kept wondering about the letter. Then, Sharon fell asleep.

Chapter 33 - Catie-Guilt!

I could feel Andy's body shaking as he sobbed. I threw my arms around his tiny shoulders, (partly because I was glad that he did not die) but couldn't calm him down. If Sharon were here, she could get him smiling in five seconds.

"I want my house! I want my mommy! I want Snowy and the alligator! I want Sissy 1!" he screamed kicking the air.

"It's okay Andy; we are going to get out of here somehow." I was only calming him because I felt sooo guilty. How did he escape the alligator? I had no idea, but I'd ask him later.

"I DON'T LIKE IT HERE!" Andy wailed. I rolled my eyes.

"Andy, you were the one who-" I stopped myself just in time.

There was a time where I would have wanted to blame everything on him on the spot. He was the one who stupidly ran away and got us in this mess in the first place! But after what we had been through, I just couldn't.

Chapter 34 - Sharon- Out of Time

Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday dear Sharon and Catie, Happy birthday to you!! Mom, Dad, and Andy clapped while they sang. Twelve bright candles were lit on top of an elegant and beautiful ice cream cake. The cake was decorated with ribbons and balloons. "Happy Birthday Catie and Sharon!! " was written in light blue, the swirly writing covering the white blank space. My sister and I each made a wish. Catie and I looked at each other and smiled, which we rarely did. 3-2-1, whoosh!! Smoke trailed on top of the candles. Mom cut the cake and passed it out as we opened our gifts.

"Isn't it great, don't you love it?" Mom and Dad asked.

"Wake up, wake up!!" Someone cried.

Wait a second, what? I cracked open my eyes, and saw David nudging me awake. So, it was all just a dream. I wanted to be home right now, and under my covers in my warm bed. I sighed, disappointed.

"Come on, we have to get on with it. We need to hurry!!" David quietly urged.

"Why?" I lazily asked.

"I just remembered Mommy planned for her uncle to come in to check the air vents. They got dusty, or at least the air vents in the Party Room did. She scheduled it for noon. I looked at your watch. We still have time, but we need to move quickly. Let's go!" David crawled ahead.

"Yeah, let's go!" I followed David, grabbing my heavy backpack.

We crawled on forward with a lot of energy. David started to hum an unfamiliar tune.

"Shhh..." I gently shushed David.

"Sorry!" He answered.

We kept on crawling and crawling. We didn't stop for a break like last time. Oh, no, I thought as I looked at my watch, it was near noon! David and I needed to hurry.

Chapter 35 - Andy- Voices

I miss everything! My mommy, my daddy, my Grammy, and my Granddy would be crying for us. I stopped crying when I heard voices next door. I even heard Sissy 1's name! I quickly told Sissy2.

Chapter 36 - David- Mommy Lies

We were crawling along the air vent when I heard Mommy yell: "There's something in the air vent! Rats! Even worse, it might be a dog! And I am scared of dogs!" Sharon and I froze. We must be in the Party Room.

"In addition to everything, my victim, I mean, daughter, is missing! My life sucks!" Mommy continued, in what I could tell her "Fake Whiny Voice."

Then we heard a man, who must be her uncle, speak. "It is all right Jacque! I will have a look!"

The next thing I knew was that the air vent being banged open with a hammer.

"WHOA!" we shouted as we fell from the high. Landing on the big fluffy brown rug, we looked up.

Just as we expected, we saw the ugly, shocked face of Mommy. She recovered quickly.

"Oooh, so there you are. My little darlings, there you are! Why don't you follow me? I have a treat for you!" she sweetly smiled. She walked out of the room, passing the surprised uncle.

"Oh no, I don't like the sound of this. This is bad." I mumbled to myself.

Chapter 37 - Catie- So That's Who It Was!!

I was thinking about how worried my friends and family back home must have been, when I felt a little tug on my pajama sleeves. Oh, yeah. I almost forgot that I was still wearing my pajamas.

"Sissy2," Andy whispered when his sobs subsided. "I think there is someone next door!"

He was right. There WERE voices coming from the left wall. I silently stood up and tiptoed across the dark cell. I felt my way around, and saw a crack in the wall where the voices grew louder and louder. I peeked through the crack to find a fat, but pretty brunette woman screaming her head off to the Vampire Dude. They were in a room similar to ours, but they had the lights on.

"What do you mean THEY are missing!? What do you mean the surveillance cameras have been shut off!? What do you mean the air vent was loose?!" the woman threw her arms up in disgust.

"Jacque, honey, I..." The Vampire Dude raised his hands in defense.

"Don't HONEY me!" Jacque screamed. "You were supposed to watch over Sharon after you finish off her siblings! I instead saw you sitting there watching TV! Shame! Now, I have to go kidnap another girl if you don't find her! Also, if you see where David is, bring him to me!" She checked her watch. "Now, I have to go welcome my uncle who volunteered to help me fix the air vents in the Party Room."

I backed away to the crack as soon as the Jacque walked out of that room in a huff. I barely heard Vampire Dude say quietly, "I should have never married her."

I was surprised. So that fat woman was the mysterious kidnapper! I thought kidnappers were more like big burly bald guys.

I tip-toed back to Andy and explained what I heard. It wasn't until I finished that I noticed he was asleep.

Chapter 38 - Sharon-That Jacque!

I eyed David nervously and then shrugged. It's not like we had a choice. Plus, we were not going to jail or be tortured or anything. We both stepped forward and walked to what could Jacque had in store for us.

We were both walking forward. As soon as we stepped into the hall, we were blindfolded and tied up. I think I knew where this was going. This wasn't good!

Chapter 39 - David-Jail Mates

We were led down a series of stairs. I was blindfolded, but I could still smell. It smelt like mold and rotten eggs. I knew where this was! This must be the under moat jail Daddy built for intruders.

Sharon and I walked and walked and walked before Mommy stopped us. She then threw us in a dark room. I felt someone shout in surprise at our presence. We were not alone! Pretty soon, the other person who was in jail with us had untied me and Sharon.

"Thanks!" I whispered before falling asleep.

Chapter 40 - Andy-Weird Dreams...

I was sleeping really good. Tonight, I didn't have nightmares. I was dreaming of what Mommy and Daddy would do when we got home. In my dream, they were very surprised. My parents hugged us all. Then, the next day, we had a party, and it was so fun! We danced, rode around town in cool cars that lit up, and saw a shaggy white dog that walked on two legs. Yeah, I have weird dreams.

Mommy and Daddy then gave us gifts. I thought it was because they missed us so much, but they said it was in honor of Uncle Sam. Who is that? I was going to open my present, but I couldn't. It was held together with all kinds of strong glue. It had super glue, sticky glue, tacky glue, brick glue, and glitter glue. Weird, huh?

I then was jointed awake and suddenly felt someone hugging me. I looked and screamed with joy. It was...

Chapter 41 - David-Emerald Eyes

I opened my eyes to darkness. Where was Sharon?? Wait a second, why am I in a hay bed? Oh well.

"Wake up, Little Guy!" A girl said.

"Yeah, wake up, David!!" Sharon nudged.

I looked up to see a girl that looked slightly like Sharon. She had the exactly same big emerald green eyes, but her hair was dark brown, almost black, not like Sharon's red-brown hair. Sharon sat next to her, hugging a little boy with the same eyes as her. He had light brown hair that was sun bleached in some places.

"Catie and Andy, this is David, Jacque (the fat brunette)'s son; David, this is Catie, my sister, and Andy, my brother." Sharon explained.

We all blithely introduced ourselves, and filled each other on what we missed. Catie told Sharon how she were so worried when she was gone and how Andy ran away to find her. Andy excitedly told about the alligator who "ate" him, and I explained that the alligator was a robot designed to bring intruders to the jail. Sharon told everyone how she was kidnapped. The air in the room seemed warmer. Then, she came in.

Chapter 42 - Catie-Little Guy

I was so happy! Sharon introduced me to the little guy, and right away I could tell that he is very logically smart. All four of us were laughing and chatting, happy to be together. We even forgot that we were in a prison. We were still rejoicing when we heard heavy footsteps outside our cell.

"Oh no." I heard Sharon mumble. "Jacque came back. What is she going to do to us?"

Her words were scary and I was suddenly annoyed. "Whatever she does to us is your entire fault since you had to be kidnapped."

Sharon looked at me surprised and hurt. "I didn't want to be kidnapped, and it wasn't my fault at all that you are here. Jacque was the one who chose to grab me away." Her cheeks grew red. "When Jacque comes in, I know that she will give you a horrible discipline. After all, she hates intruders. And I'm glad."

I opened my mouth to argue more, but then we heard someone unlock our door and-

Chapter 43 - Andy- Rude, Mean Woman

"Well, well. What do we have here?" A fat woman asked when she entered our prison. I thought she was another good friend I was going to make today, until my new friend David squealed and ran behind us. My Sissies were too scared to move. Then I knew she was a bad woman.

"You guys all did something bad, so you'll have to be punished." The rude mean woman snickered. "I will not have mercy this time!"

Chapter 44 - Catie-I Bet Sharon's Happy

"Andy!" Jacque barked, and we stiffened. "You will be forgiven at such a young age for intruding. However, you cannot spill the beans, so you'll have to stay here forever."

We gasped in unison, and Andy turned and looked confused.

"What does spill the beans mean?" he asked David.

David shrugged.

"David and Catie, sadly," she put on a fake pity face, "will have to be executed."

"WHAT!?" Sharon and I cried out at the same time. I mean, what did we ever do so bad? I bet Sharon was happy. She wanted me punished.

It was David's turn to look confused.

"What does that mean?" he whispered to puzzled Andy.

"Sharon would be..." Jacque paused on purpose for the dramatic effect. Sharon glanced at me nervously. "given one last chance to obey my words." Jacque finished.

I sighed, relieved. At least one of us could live, even though it had to be Sharon.

Chapter 45 - Andy-Crying

I cried as the meanie took away my Sissies and my new friend. The Fat Woman told the two scary blonde men to drag them away. I cried and cried. This would be the last time I would see them alive. I cried some more. Then I sobbed.

Chapter 46 - Sharon-The Girly Boy

I was led to my bedroom by Jacque herself. Just before she locked my crying brother in the jail, she screamed in my ear.

"Now you be a GOOD DAUGHTER, or that young man in there WILL NOT HEAR THE END OF IT!"

She shoved me in my room and locked the door. I stood there for a second before collapsing on my bed.

"I'll never ever see my family, the outside world again. Either will Andy." I thought to myself blankly. "Now Catie and David are going to die!" I sheepishly remembered that I wanted Catie to be punished by Jacque. I now would give anything to let her live. I guess I didn't despise my sister as I thought I did.

"Maybe Catie was right. It was all my fault." I thought guiltily.

Strangely, I did not feel sad or mad. I guess the information did not sink in yet. I just lay there, thinking about school and life. Don't ask me why, but I felt like thinking about something different. I might have sat there for ages, if the door had not opened. I sat up immediately, thinking it was Jacque. Instead, a strange boy with hazel eyes came in alongside a cute white fluffy sheepdog. The dog was looking around panting.

The stranger tip-toed toward me, looking behind him to make sure no one was following him.

"Who are you?" I asked him curiously. "And what are you doing here?"

"Shhh..." he whispered. " I got totally tired of listening to that Jacque woman, so I made an escape route, 'cause my brain is, like, totally awesome. I can totally help you, but girl, you have to listen and cooperate to me. I mean, like, unless you don't want to go. " He girlishly flipped his hair. Then he pulled out a map. Wait, wasn't that my map?

Chapter 47 - Catie-Not Again!?

Seriously! What have I done to deserve a death penalty?! I was in shock as the two blonde burly guards dragged me and David away. We both were too tired and too hopeless to struggle free. They carried us for what seemed like hours through a modern looking jail. The roof of the prison was a see-through, and I could make out the shadows of the alligators swimming above us. This must be an under-the-moat prison.

After a long journey (even though it was probably two minutes), we came to a stop at a large red cell house with bland white doors. The guards threw David and me in wordlessly and left. We were in another cell. Not again!? Then the blonde dudes slammed the door shut. What gentlemen! I huffed.

"Oh my gosh!" I gasped when l observed my surroundings. The round room was full of old torture devices lying on every inch of the floor except where we sat. The weapons were so weird looking that I couldn't name them. Well, actually, I could name one: the whip. It was laying in the dead center of the room.

"She used that to hit on me whenever I disobeyed." David looked at me, fear in his eyes. It took me a whole minute to realize that he was talking about the whip.

"Really?" I was shocked that anyone would harm this little guy. "What did you do?"

"Nothing." He shrugged. "She just..." Pretty soon, David spilled out the whole story on how his mom started hating him because his dad left, and how his mom kidnapped Sharon, and how he and my sister managed to escape, but got caught. I was surprised I didn't ask why he was escaping earlier.

Chapter 48 - Sharon-Larry Johnston

The boy introduced himself as Larry Johnston. He told me that he was a grape picker here. He was forced to work in this "jail" full time, and skip education, even though he was only 14. He even knew my name!

Larry admitted that he was the one that took my map. He had Snowy, his dog, sneak in and grab it out of my pant pocket.

"Wait, wait, wait." I interrupted. "You had your dog sneak in without me noticing? How did he do that? He must be well trained."

"As a matter of fact," Larry replied smugly. "He totally is. That is exactly how he is, like, helpful in my plan. Anyways, I, like, took your map, because I thought I could see an escape route with my totally witty brain. I was tired of obeying that woman's commands, so I decided to help you out."

Larry spread the map across the pillows, and his dog jumped besides the scale drawing of the castle's secret routes. He pointed at a faint green marking that I have never noticed before. It was drawn around the perimeter of my map. "Thanks to David, I now know that there is an underground passage which leads to the vineyard."

"But where can we get to the passageway?" I asked, even though I could tell by looking at the map.

"Easy." Larry answered confidently. "I learned from the map that there is a trapdoor on the left west corner of every room." He paused and picked up a round shaped object that looked like a TV remote. "Thanks to the other workers, I learned that the trapdoors are opened by a remote control. Totally cool, huh? I also found out, like, where the remote is kept, and asked Snowy to get it. So now, we have to find where the trapdoor is in your room before going to save your siblings. But, I have to warn you, there is no ladder with these trapdoors. You have to fall, like, a long way down to the passageways. Even when we rescue your siblings, we have to heave Snowy up to their doors in order for them to know they are getting rescued. Now, girl, let's get to work!"

He finished his instructions and we immediately got to work. The trapdoor blended so well in the carpet floor, I wasn't surprised that I never noticed it before. Even though I hardly know this guy, I think he was trustworthy. I just hope I'm right.

Chapter 49 - Andy- Still Sobbing...

So I cried and cried and cried and cried and wailed on my blanket. I felt like a baby. I was so sad here that I could skip dessert for a week if they only let me go. I was still sobbing when I heard a bark! Snowy!

I opened my eyes and I saw the adorable doggy in front of me.

"Hi!" I said, reaching out my hand. The puppy barked. I did not know how he got here. The door was locked.

He barked again, and started walking to a...

I gasped. It was a real live trapdoor! Not on TV! I was so happy! The doggy jumped into it and I followed.

Chapter 50 - Catie-The Dreaded Moment

David and I talked about everything - animals, friends, families, to get our minds off the execution. He has amazing pronunciation and social skills for a six year old. Then the dreaded moment came.

We immediately stopped talking as soon as we heard the too-familiar footsteps coming to our cell. I don't exactly know how to describe the fear we felt that moment, but it was, er, breathtaking? The doors opened and in came the Jacque woman.

"Hello, my dear son." She chuckled toward David. "And welcome Catie. Today you will be choosing a way to die using a device in this room." She gestured around her. "I will record your death to show Sharon. Then, she would feel respect toward me so much that she would want to be my daughter!" Jacque finished dramatically.

David and I looked at each other, before bursting into laughter. This lady certainly was crazy!

Our happiness was short-lived though. We were rolling on the ground still fitting fits of giggles, when we felt as if our chests were on fire! Of course, that woman had whipped us.

"Good." She said calmly holding the whip. "Now let me go get my camcorder and finish you off. Jacque left again, locking our no-window cell door.

David and I sat in silence. Suddenly, we heard a creak and a bark...

Chapter 51 - Andy- Flying Dowwwwn...

I flew down that awesome trapdoor and landed on a hard floor.

"Ow!" I shouted, because I was in pain from falling. Then, someone helped me up.

"I am so glad to see you." The person said. I looked up. It was Sissy1!! We hugged. Next to her was the pretty boy who owned Snowy.

"I am Larry Johnston." He whispered. "We will explain everything later. First, follow us quietly."

I looked around. This was so cool! I wish Catie was here to see this. We were in a dark brick passageway. Larry was carrying a candle, to light our way, I think, because it was dark in here. We walked for a long time. I wanted to shout out with excitement. I was even more happy when Sissy1 told me that we were going to save Sissy2 and David! I was going to be a hero!!!!

Chapter 52 - Catie-Doggy!!!

A huge dog appeared out of a door left to the ground, and I recognized him as Snowy.

"Woof. Yiippp! ! Woof, woof, Arrrf!! "Snowy yelped and looked back.

"I think he wants us to follow him down." David observed.

"Sure." I replied. What other options do we have? Besides, why else would a dog pop out of the ground? In some dog movies, dogs were supposed to rescue people. The trapdoor was about 15 inches by 14 inches big. I am not sure if I can squeeze in. Oh well. I'll try. Snowy jumped through the door, got stuck, and barely made it. He must have landed hardly, because we heard a loud "thud."

"You can go first." I whispered to David. I wanted him to see me as a good role model, but the real reason was that I was slightly scared of heights. Don't tell Sharon, okay? I want her to think of me as 100% brave.

"Quick!" I urged David. He looked down and gulped. That probably meant that it was going to be long landing. Already, Jacque's footsteps were back, getting closer and closer. David bravely plunged himself down, down, down... thud!

"I am back!" I heard Jacque call from down the hall.

Doing the best to not look down, I squeezed my body through the door, but my shoulders, along with my arms, got stuck at the last second. Now, that despicable woman was so close to our cell, I could hear her ragged breath. (It must be hard for a woman that fat to walk, let alone walking while breathing normally.) When I heard her unlocking the door, I started to squirm. I gave one more squeeze and broke free. As I fell, I noticed that the trapdoor closed by itself, then I landed on my feet.

"OOWWWWIIEEE!" I protested, trying to ignore the pain in my feet. I dropped down to give it a massage.

"What the heck!" I suddenly heard Jacque scream with rage. "They are gone! I guess I have to send a search party again! URG! I just remembered the appointment with my sister to sweep the..." her voice faded along with her footsteps.

Next to me, I saw David rubbing his back in pain. He might have had a worse landing than me. I rushed over to help him stand up.

Then, two things happened at once. First, I heard someone yelling "Sissy!" I turned to see both Sharon and Andy squeezing the daylights out of me. Seriously?! I would have hugged them back if I didn't see the hot dude.

"What are you doing here?" I shouted breaking free. I mean, wasn't he the guy who tried to turn me in?!

"I, uh, please!" he begged, backing away from me. He shielded his face with his hands, and averted his eyes. Like that was ever going to stop me!

I could have knocked him unconscious, if Sharon had not stepped in between us and calmed me down.

"This is Larry Johnston." Sharon said, properly introducing us. "Larry, this is Catie, my twin. Larry is here to help us. If it weren't for his dog, you'd be dead by now! Now follow us. We know where to go.

Chapter 53 - Andy-Yelling

Catie didn't like Larry at first, because she was yelling at him. Now she, Sharon and Larry are talking as if they are best friends. Me and David became friends too and together, we five followed the cute doggy who I think knew the way.

Chapter 54 - Catie-History of This Castle

Larry isn't as bad as I thought. In fact, he seemed like an almost normal boy. He was a little girlish, but otherwise fine. I learned that he was the son of Vampire Dude, which, by the way, was Mr. Johnston. After his dad married Jacque, she convinced Mr. Johnston to stop his son's education and train him to be her henchman/ worker. I was surprised to learn that the burly blonde men were not guards at all, but were Jacque's brothers and advertising men. I mean, they acted like guards.

Anyway, we were still walking down the brick passageway, which stretched through the whole castle. (It turned out that this place was a replica of the Va Lende mansion. Jacque's first husband built all this when they were just married. No wonder this place was so old fashioned.Va Lenda, by the way, was Jacque's great-great- great grandfather who was rich in his time. He was known in his time to sell illegal stuff.) Larry talked about how his stepmom forced him to distract me and pull me off guard with his good looks at the boat. Good thing I didn't fall for that one. I mean, I would make myself look like a fool, going for a guy under the circumstances. Humph!

Another cool thing was that while we were walking down the passage, Sharon stiffly apologized for wanting Jacque to punish me.

"That is okay. It isn't your fault that Jacque wants me dead." I looked down, embarrassed. I wasn't used to accepting apologies from my twin.

"Hey, I was stupid for blaming you for being kidnapped. I mean, you didn't want this to happen either." I stammered.

There was this awkward silence between us. It was then when I realized I didn't hate my sister that much.

Chapter 55 - Andy- My New Friend

Me and David were talking about trucks and cute, colorful animals when we heard Snowy bark. I saw him looking at a dead end.

"Arf!" He said and started to back away from the wall.

"What is it, boy?" asked Sharon. Suddenly, the wall opened like a door and out came Vampire Dude. He looked very scary and ugly. He always was scary and ugly. Oh yes, VERY ugly!

We were all scared, because we knew he was a bad boy. My Sissies, David, and Larry all ran in the other direction. I was so scared that I couldn't move. Vampire Dude got nearer and nearer...

Chapter 56 - Catie-Run Andy, Run!

"Run Andy, run!" We all shouted desperately behind our backs. My brother just stood there numbly.

"Run, Andy!" Now we had slowed to walking.

"Well, well. Jacque would love to see this little guy tortured to death." The Vampire Dude snickered.

Now, we were all too frightened to run.

Vampire Dude now looked at us. "How dare you run away! My Jacque will be so happy with me! Now, your discipline will be worst. Wait until my Jacque sees you! She would reward me by letting me take a break from driving injured workers who fought in the greenhouse to the hospital. "He snickered." I knew you guys were going to be here because-AAGH!!!!" he didn't finish because Snowy, that brave boy, had bitten the Vampire by his leg, and we used that chance to run. It took a while for us to realize that Andy and Snowy weren't with us.

Chapter 57 - Andy-Mr. Vampire

The mean Vampire Dude grabbed me and threw me and Snowy through the wall that was a door. There was a dusty wooden staircase. He dragged us roughly up, and then threw us in a bland room. I cried. Snowy whimpered. I stopped when I saw that the room was filled with cool devices. It even had a real whip!

"Ha!" He laughed meanly. "I will soon get the others and bring all of you to Jacque! She shall be pound of me." He then looked sad, but quickly went back into being mean again.

He picked up a whip that was lying on the ground. He brought it down, down, down...

"Wait!" I blurted, covering my face. I couldn't help it, but I had so many questions. "Why do you even listen to Jacque? She is so mean to you! What are you going to do to us, I mean we are little kids. In TV, all the kids get forgiven because they are little! And why do you look like a vampire?"

He stared at me for a long time, holding the whip. His eyes grew shiny. Then he frowned and answered, "You were a bad boy, so that is why you will be punished." He lifted the whip again.

"But what did I ever do to you!?" I was now frustrated with this guy. "You were the one who lied to us and brought us here! Because of you, Catie and I are here, and we were accused of being intruders! Reasonably, we wanted to escape. Besides, you could have had some logic and not listened to that woman! You let her take control over you!" I yelled at his surprised face.

Realizing that I said too much, I closed my eyes and waited for the pain to strike. Yet, it never came. I picked up Snowy and buried my face in his fur. He whimpered again. I looked up and saw Vampire Dude crying.

"You okay?" I asked, being a nice boy. I think I was too harsh on him. I should have just given him a time out.

"No." he sobbed. "I can't believe I gave up my beautiful wife, Eileen, for this horrid woman. You are right. I shouldn't do this to kids this little. It is just not right!" he looked at me with his tearstained face. "I shall let you go."

I was so dumbfounded that I forgot that he didn't answer my third question.

Chapter 58 - Catie-ANDY???

"Where is Andy?" I shouted. Immediately, the others scuttled to a halt.

"Uhh... I'm not sure," Sharon answered. Larry turned to tell Snowy to find Andy. However, the white German Sheppard was not here nor there.

"Snowy!!! Where are you??" Larry asked, panicking.

"I think that they either got lost, or Vampire Dude took them." I inputted.

"No! Dad would not hurt Snowy!!" Larry cried.

I guess he really cared for his dog! We tried to back track our steps.

"Now, which way did we go?"

"I think we went left."

"No, we didn't."

"Yes we did!"

"I remember this air vent!"

"No, it is the opposite, remember?"

"If we turned left, now we have to turn right!"

"Oh yeah!!"

"Now, then, where did we turn? I think that the passage is where we were."

"No, it's not, it is the other passage,"

We argued with each other so much that we were lost, again.

Chapter 59 - Andy-Awkward Silence

Vampire Dude stopped crying and took us out of the "torture room". We had an awkward silence, but then I asked a question.

"Why did you marry mean Jacque?" I curiously asked.

"Well, I'm not sure anymore. Well, Eileen and I had been fighting for a while. We divorced. Then, I met Jacque. When I met her, I thought that she was perfect. At that time, she was pretty, young, rich, and exciting. When I proposed to her, she was so elated. Never would I know that I would be her little sidekick, and my son be her little bodyguard. Now, I am really regretting divorcing Eileen." Vampire Dude wistfully said staring ahead, thinking about his past.

I got bored and blocked out Vampire Dude halfway through his flashback. Snowy was so cute! He was so loyal too. I wanted a dog, just like Snowy. He was so fuzzy, soft, and obedient. I had been begging for three years!! Ok, it was really three months, but you get my point. Vampire Dude petted Snowy's head, and Snowy licked him. Vampire Dude smiled a sad smile completed with glossy eyes. I felt sorry for Vampire Dude. He looked and sounded very sad.

Chapter 60 - Sharon-The Agreement

"What should we do?" I panicked to Catie. "If we go back to Andy and Snowy, we might bump into Jacque, because Vampire Dude probably alerted to her that he found us there! Or, since we are already lost, we might never find our way to them since the passage is so confusing. That way all of us would get in trouble, not just those two! But, of course, we can't leave our brother to deal with such an evil man!"

"I say we go back to Andy." Catie replied without hesitation.

"And save Snowy." Larry agreed.

David looked at them and enthusiastically nodded his head.

We were thinking about going after Andy and Snowy when we heard those ever familiar heavy footsteps heading our direction.

"Oh great." David mumbled next to me as we hurried the other way.

Chapter 61 - David-My Weird Aunt

I forgot that Mommy wanted my sweeper/fortune teller aunt, Madame Goga (yes that is her name), to clean the passageways sometime this week. She has very weird relatives! I completely lost track of time. What day was today?? Anyway, we ran in a random direction. (We were lucky that the passageway was soundproof.) I didn't even know where we were going! Fortunately, we saw light ahead.

"Where are we?" I panted.

"I'm not sure, but I am pretty certain that we are at the vineyard! The vineyard and the back door are the only way out without going through the castle. " Larry panted back.

Collapsing at the end of the passageway, which had an exit as small as a pet door, we stopped and then rested. One by one, we fell asleep. I stayed awake because I know that the workers were also forced to be trained as Jacque's guards. (It was hard enough for them to be kidnapped at young age to work all day, with no payments. I couldn't wait to tell the police about that one!!) We had to be cautious. However, I started getting drowsier and drowsier...

Chapter 62 - Sharon-Grapes Are Better Than Apes

"Found someone here!" Someone with a thick voice yelled.

Huh? Where am I? I opened my eyes a crack to see a sweaty tan man with a huge beard. Creepy.

"No, there is way more than one here!" A short, but muscular man grumbled. He appeared next to the tan man. I noticed that they were both wearing a white shirt that said a logo: "Grapes Are Better than Apes." Those must be the workers.

"Oh, here is that son of Boss." The muscular man gestured to a sleeping David. He lit a pipe as he examined us closely. I froze. I didn't think they would harm us: they looked defenseless, almost weak, despite those muscles. But I didn't trust my instincts on this one.

"We better tell Boss. Remember, this morning she found her victims gone. She told us that if we find them, we all get a day off from work. I did nothing but toil in the sun all day since I was abducted at age ten. I'm tired of this strenuous work!" The short one grunted and ducked through the passage. The tan man shrugged and followed.

Oh gosh! I thought. This doesn't sound good. I should wake the others. I jumped up and ran to Catie.

"Catie!" I silently screamed into her ear. "Wake up! Jacque is coming! We've got to warn the others." Catie, the sound-sleeper, merely rolled over. I rushed to Larry.

"C'mon! Wakey, wakey!" I shouted loudly. Larry grunted and went back to sleep. I panicked. I heard the voices of the workers faraway talking to Jacque, and heard her scream with rage at the news.

"Great." I mumbled.

"David! Wake up! She is coming!" I hollered at the sleeping kid. He jumped up shocked.

"Good, now help me wi.." I began. To my dismay, the sleepy kid slipped and bumped his head on the brick wall, unconscious. I sighed.

I ran to each sleeping (and unconscious) member and shook them a bazillion times. "Guys! Now, I can hear her walking toward the passage!" I screamed. Wow. They sure are sound sleepers. Just when I was about to kick them awake, (bad me) Larry sat up and started dragging Catie back into the passageway.

"Get David and follow me!" he whispered. I grabbed the skinny boy by his collar and half carried, half dragged him after Larry. Now Jacque was in the passage with us. I could hear her trying to squeeze her meaty arms through the tiny door. Behind her, I could hear the workers helping her.

I wanted to walk faster but Larry stopped walking abruptly and faced the wall. He tapped it five times and a door, in the middle of the wall, swung open. Past the door was a large window-less room. Wordlessly, Larry heaved my sister through the door, and did so himself. He reached out his hand to help with David.

"Arrrggg!" I heard Jacque scream as she tried to squeeze her big butt into the small door.

"Hurry!" I whispered urgently as I half threw David at Larry. "She is coming any minute!" Larry nodded impatiently as I climbed into the door. Automatically, it swung close after me. I was about to sigh in relief when I saw who was in this grand red room with us: Vampire Dude.

Chapter 63 - David-Looks Familiar.....zzz

I woke up on a silk red canopy bed. Sleepily, I looked around to see Catie sleeping next to me. Across the room, I saw a figure reading together to Andy on a red leather couch. The whole room was filled with expensive red stuff. The only thing that wasn't red was the walls. They were the same color as the passageway. This place looked familiar.

Then I fell asleep.

Chapter 64 - Sharon-Smart Andy

"Um...what is he doing here?" I gestured to Vampire Dude, who was sitting on the couch reading to Andy, with Snowy at their feet. I looked around. I was in the reddest room ever. "What is this place?"

"This is my dad's room. He chose this place because it is in the passageway, and he is really into it. He had to get permission from Jacque to use this room, because she likes it too." Without pausing Larry continued swiftly. "This is the only place we could go, since we were trapped. Besides, I knew my dad wouldn't really harm Andy and Snowy. I know that he would chicken out at the last minute." He then gently picked up a sleeping Catie and carried her into a fancy red canopy bed. I did the same with David.

We watched the two sleep for a while, and he grabbed my arm and walked me to Vampire Dude.

"Dad!" He cried, and Vampire Dude looked up from his copy of A Wrinkle in Time.

"How did you guys get in here?" he asked, obviously surprised. While Larry was explaining, Andy hugged me, and explained how amazing A Wrinkle in Time was. "I even understand it better than Mr. Johnston here!" He giggled. I wasn't surprised, I mean, my brother (even though he was immature) has an IQ of 156. Andy is sure smart!

Chapter 65 - David-My Room!!

Mommy was chasing me with a gun. A water gun. She was shooting at me.

"Please!" I pleaded with my back wet. "I will be a good son."

Mommy merely laughed. "I will never have mercy!" She growled.

Then her voice changed into a girl's voice, "Wake up David, you are having a bad dream!"

Huh? Oh. I sat up and looked at Catie who was shaking me awake. Snowy jumped on me and started to lick my face. Giggling I tried to push him off, then I saw Vampire Dude looking anxiously at me. The blood drained from my face.

"What is he doing here?' I asked Catie, trying to sound brave.

"Don't worry," was her reply. "He is on our side now!"

I jumped off the fancy bed and looked around the elegant room. Then it hit me. "This was my room when I was little!" I blurted. "Except that I had many car posters on the walls. Mommy bought those just for me. She promised then that if I get straight A's in high school, she would buy me a custom made red car." I closed my eyes at those good memories.

My thoughts were interrupted when Vampi- I mean, Mr. Johnston announced that he would sneak food out of the kitchen for us. Before we could say how hungry we were, he disappeared.

I walked around the room, my hand gliding along the walls thinking the exciting plans on going to places like Far Far Away. Inside, I was swelling with excitement. Even though it seems months ago, it was only a few days ago when I gave Sharon my map.

I looked at Sharon now, and saw she was much happier with Larry, Andy, Catie, and me.

I was still floating around all happy when I remembered that we weren't escaped yet. I was almost gloomy when I remember Mommy's high security. With all that guards/ workers and cameras around, how were we ever going to get out? I racked my head, brainstorming, until Mr. Johnston came back rolling the plates of food on a cart. Then I got a plan.

Chapter 66 - Sharon-Starving

I scuffled down five fish burgers and a few handfuls of French fries that Mr. Johnston managed to steal from the kitchen. I mean, to a person who was starving, the big trays of salad, cupcakes, iced water, burgers, bread, soup, cold lasagna, and french fries that he brought in were heaven! Everyone was stuffing themselves full. Even Andy, despite his little body, ate three large slices of sausage lasagna, a cup of soup, and five cupcakes. David, who was always starved by his mom, ate big quantities of everything. In fact, he gobbled down half of our stolen food. Snowy vacuumed up the scraps that we dropped under the table. He stole a loaf of bread, but ate only half. We even finished all three gallons of water! When the plates in front of us were nothing but crumbs, all five of us collapsed on the couch, with Mr. Johnston reading in his bed.

"Your dad is so nice!" Andy mumbled lazily to Larry. Then he dropped straight into his lap and started to snooze noisily. The rest of us, one by one, fell asleep right there on the fancy couch.

Chapter 67 - David-He Never Thought of It!

Everyone fell asleep before I could share my plan. I decided to tell them my idea in the morning. First, I need to get Mr. Johnston's approval.

"Mr. Johnston." I said as I sat on the bed next to him. "I have a question."

"What?" he replied, closing his book. "Ask quickly! I have to think of a plan to get us out of here."

I couldn't help but smile. "I have a plan though. I was going to ask if you can agree to help me activate it."

"Go on boy." He looked as if he was trying to hide the "this was a big waste of time" look.

"You know how Mommy would be asking her workers to watch every exit for us, right?" I began. "So I was thinking it will be safer for us to leave in the open. We could pile in your car, and you could drive us out through the main gate! We would be disguised as injured workers who needed to go to the hospital! Mommy wouldn't suspect a thing since you are the one who usually take injured workers to the hospital! We could head to the police station. That is where all the people in TV go when they need help." I finished triumphantly.

Mr. Johnston stared at me flabbergasted. "I never thought of that. It seems like a good plan, and it will be easy. I used to be a makeup artist working in theaters where Eileen was an actor..." He snapped out of his flashback and continued. "Anyway, go to sleep, boy. I will take care of the plan!"

Chapter 68 - Andy-David's Plan

David and his stepdad created a plan! I think that it is cool. We got to hide in his car and pretend to be injured! I used to pretend to be injured to skip school, but the thousands of band aids I put all over my hand never fooled mommy. But that sounded like a fun game!! Yay!!

Chapter 69 - Catie-Mr. Johnston, a Makeup Artist?

Mr. Johnston told us a great plan to escape. I was baffled to learn that David was the one who came up with these plans. I was also surprised to learn that Mr. Johnston got everything ready for the plan. He had a bunch of dirty and smelly clothes piled up on the floor when we woke up. Among those clothes were T-shirts that had weird logos on them and other T-shirts featured apes eating grapes.

He told Larry, Sharon, and me to put on the logo T-shirts and raggedy jeans. Next, he put bandages on our knees and elbows. I shuddered when I saw that the bandages were soggy with red liquid that looked like blood. Luckily, Mr. Johnston assured us that it was only ketchup and dye. Next, he took out all sorts of fancy tools that looked like makeup stuff. He lined us up and started drawing all over our faces.

When I looked in the mirror, I found a fake black eye, two scratches, and five bruises all on my face! I even had a fake dried bloody nose! I could hardly recognize myself! Wow, Mr. Johnston was super great at make up!! Meanwhile, David and Andy put on the T-shirts that had grape-eating apes. They were pretending to be the injured kid workers. Mr. Johnston worked his magic on all of us.

Snowy had the hardest part. He was hidden in the trunk of the van. We had to make sure he was covered and quiet. Then, we were all set.

Chapter 70 - Andy-Not Jaqcue Again!?

David, my friend thought of a wonderful plan! I knew he was smart... like me!

Anyways, we packed everything in the van. I even found my old backpack! Then, we slowly rolled along across the moat and down the road. The next thing I saw was a fat figure stopping us in our tracks. As we neared the figure, we realized that it was the amazingly fat Jacque.

"Hello, my dear Steven. How are you??" She sweetly asked Vampire Dude, blinking her naturally long lashes. "I was thinking about taking a walk when I saw your car and your handsome face."

"Great honey," he pretended to blush. "I am taking these workers to the hospital. They broke out in a fight today. These kids got hurt by trying to stop the irresponsible teenagers. Tsk tsk." He casually gestured to David and me, who were doing our best to look away. Vampire Dude leaned over to kiss her, when he saw her suspicious face. I followed her gaze. She was looking at David.

"He looks familiar," she stared expressionlessly. She ruffled her silky brown curls thoughtfully.

"That is because you have seen him before. He works in the field right out your window." Vampire Dude said nervously answered.

"Are you sure?" she doubtfully shot back, her big gray eyes suspicious.

"Yes, I am 100 percent sure." he lied. His face grew red. Larry later told me his father always did that when he wasn't truthful.

"Why, it is hot today, isn't it? Well, I need to bring these bad kids to the hospital. Catch you later!" He said quickly. I understood his excuse and silently prayed for her to not remember that it was still December.

Vampire Dude didn't wait for an answer. He was about to hit the pedal when we heard a muffled "woof" behind me.

"Must be uh... Wilson, that naughty kid! Always wanting to be some animal, or the other. I am going to hospital now!" I heard him rush.

Jacque just ignored him. She stared at us, and then looked around the trees."

"Must be a wolf," she murmured unconvinced.

Suddenly, she went and opened the trunk door. She saw Snowy and gasped.

"How did he get here?" she narrowed her eyes. She actually looked scared.

"I'm not sure!" Vampire Dude pretended to look confused. I wanted to cry. What was going to happen?

Snowy started to bark and growl. Jacque shrieked and ran off. Then she called her brother/guards/advertising men. They were sunbathing near the moat, listening to nursery rhymes on the radio, but when they heard her call, they rushed to their unicycles with training wheels.

As Vampire Dude took off with the trunk still open, Snowy bravely jumped into the backseat with Larry. He barked at the burly men who were chasing us in their swimming underwear. I was laughing at their long uncontrollable chest hair and ugly mustaches when Vampire Dude swerved suddenly to the left and the Burly men crashed into a rock and toppled on each other.

"You are a big fat meanie!" One of the burly men cursed us. The other one stuck his tongue at us and started to cry. They quickly got up and the chase was on!

Chapter 71 - Sharon-Wrong Time To Sleep

I drifted to sleep. The last thing I remember was the Burly Men falling down and getting up again and again as Mr. Johnston made more random turns. Of course, we got lost. When I woke up we were near a dumpster. The Burly Men were long gone, but where were we??

Chapter 72 - Catie-The Chase

So, the blonde Burly Men were getting closer and closer. Just when they were about to grab and open the trunk, Sharon, of all things, fell asleep. The blondies were now so close that I could see the zits on their chin. Then, Mr. Johnston picked up speed and swerved to the right.

"Wwwooaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!" we screamed as the car tilted this way and that. I turned around just in time to see the burly men tripping on each other before falling head first. After struggling for a minute, they finally got up, and tripped again while trying to get on their unicycles with training wheels. They must be bad unicycle riders! Well, at least we lost them! They shot us ugly looks and dejectedly hopped back to the castle. Hopefully, this was the last time we see them!!

Chapter 73 - David-The Dump

Mr. Johnston looked back and stuck his tongue at them. We laughed at how childish he was.

Crash! We were so busy rejoicing the fact that we escaped the men, we did not realize that we were driving off course into the city dumpster. Or at least I think it was the city dumpster, I only seen it on TV. Anyway, the frount of the car was a mess, but we decided it wouldn't be a problem, we could always walk!

"What?" Sharon snapped awake. "It is morning already?"

"No." Larry (who was sitting between me and her) said slowly. "We drove into a dump. It is still night time."

"Hey, um, if we ever make it home, can you... would you like to ... well, go see a movie?" he said nervously.

"No! Whatever you are going to ask, NO!" Sharon didn't look at him again. Larry was sad and he stroked Snowy who was snoozing by our feet. I was confused.

"Yes! Yes!" Catie cried out excited. While we were still in the car, Catie got out and climbed on biggest garbage pile.

"Really?" Larry looked hopeful.

"Sharon, we are at the dumpster near the zoo. This is it! Remember, we had a field trip here to the zoo? This is the zoo dumpster!" Catie continued excitedly, jumping up and down.

"I'll see a movie with you!" I said to Larry.

Everyone stared at me, so I said, "What? He is very nice! After all, he is my step brother!!"

Chapter 74 - Catie-Home!...almost

"Finally, this is perfect," I mumbled to myself, "I know how to get home!!"

"Well, I'm sorry that no one likes movies! Only David does." Larry said in his girly girl voice.

"Hmmm...? What did you say?" I absent-mindedly asked.

"Nothing!" Larry quickly said, shooting a sharp look at Sharon.

"Oh, wait, are you guys having a private conversation?" I asked thoughtfully, "I won't disturb you."

"NOPE!" Those two screamed in my face.

"Gosh, I sorry. You two don't have to be so mean!!" I snapped. Sheesh!

Chapter 75 - David-Larry, Larry, (Tsk, tsk)

"Sharon is so mean! She embarrassed me in front of my dad! She rejected my offer! She, she agitated me. I don't like her! She doesn't like movies, me, David, or anyone. She is so cold. Catie, on the other hand, I haven't heard her response yet. Maybe her whole family besides Sharon will come with her to the movies! After all, I need to thank the girls since they saved me from Jacque. Oh wait, they have to thank me! I was the one who told Snowy to save everyone! I still don't like Sharon since she rejected me! Who would reject me? I am so nice! I think she is jealous of my niceness!" Larry said annoyingly as we tried to ignore him. It seemed like he mumbled it for years!

I guess I had the type of stepbrother that got annoyed whenever someone figured out something, or things changed for the good. I guess that that was the bad part about Larry. He overreacted too much. I hope I'd not be like him.

Catie, Sharon, and Andy huddled together in the middle seats of the van. I am sure that they were all trying to block out Larry's constant complaining. Even Snowy whimpered and put his paws over his ears. Since I sat in the back with Larry, I tried to make him quiet.

"Hey, Larry?" I asked. He completely ignored me.

"You know, we are trying to sleep, right?" I still received no answer. His voice didn't dwindle.

"It is fine if Sharon doesn't want to see a movie with you! Catie, Andy, and I could see it with you! Stepdad could also see it with us! See? There's nothing to worry about!" I said optimistically. It didn't work. I resolved to plugging my ears and trying to block him out.

We were all relieved when he fell asleep.

Chapter 76 - Sharon-Nighttime

We were in the dumpster trying to get some rest, since it was too dark to do anything else! Tomorrow we would try to fix the car, since its front was badly damaged. I didn't mind walking though. As long as I was away from Jacque, I was fine with almost anything.

Larry, being so annoying, kept on mumbling on how mean I was and how I embarrassed him. Well, he was embarrassing me right now! Catie agreed to defend me in case he striked. I know she was joking, but it was nice to have someone on my side.

Catie, Andy, and I slept on top of each other and curled up next to each other in the van. Hey, that was the first time we had all slept together since we were little! Also, that was the first time we had slept on top of each other in the car and not complained! It was actually kind of nice, hugging little Andy in the middle. Catie and I smiled at each other and made faces at Larry's crabbiness. (He was curled up on the floor, still complaining.) We really had bonded. I guess the kidnapping and all that happened in between had made us realize how much we needed each other.

I thought about poor little David. He had been through so much, but he still had a lot of spirit! I also thought about Mr. Johnston. Hopefully, he would get back together with his ex-wife Eileen.

Finally, Larry's complaining resided to a whisper. He fell asleep, mumbling about teddy bears. I drifted off to sleep too.

Chapter 77 - Sharon-Working Together

A streak of sunshine shone in my eyes. I open them to see a bunch of workers wearing shirts that said "Grapes are better than apes". Huh? What happened? I suddenly remembered that I was on the run with my friends.

"What are you people doing?" I asked sleepily as Snowy growled.

The fattest worker-his name tag said Bill-said in a monotonous voice, "We were sent to capture you. Come with us, OR ELSE!"

I rubbed my eyes. "Or else what?"

"I don't know." Bill shrugged. "I am only telling you what Boss told me to say.

Before I could reply, a teenager worker with the name tag Scott blurted, "Whatever, we are not under her watch right now. We can just escape the wrath of Jacque!"

The other workers stared at that kid for a long time and someone whistled. The others started to nod. Catie yawned and stretched. When did she wake up?

"Well," said Bill thoughtfully. "I hadn't seen the outside world since I was captured as a kid. Lead the way!" The other workers cheered.

"I think I know the direction!" Catie yelled excited. We woke the others that were still in the car sleeping. The workers were waiting for Catie to say anything.

"I know that some of you are good with machines. Now, I'll just need some help..." she instructed.

Chapter 78 - Andy-the Road

Vampire Dude woke me up. I saw a bunch of people wearing shirts like mine! They were fixing our car. I was glad to see my sisters working together to lead the group of workers. I was soon riding with Larry, Snowy, and David in the car. Sharon wanted to walk, and Catie wanted to lead with her! I was happy for them. They were like best friends now. Before, they were enemies. This escapade had "made" friends for all of us. Catie , Sharon, and I like each other now! We even made new friends with David, Mr. Johnston, Snowy, and maybe Larry.

Chapter 79 - David- Where are We?

The first thing I heard was cheering. Then I drifted asleep again. Next thing, I was carried to the van. Stepdad! I thought in my head. Where are we? Hey, the van was fixed and could work again! Where were Sharon and Catie? Oh, they were outside. Hey, they were leading the crowd! They were leaders! We walked and walked through streets that I had never seen before. It looked just like TV! I saw many non-worker people watching us! I waved to them. They stared at my raggedy clothes. I felt insecure. However, after I thought for a while, I didn't care for my clothes! It is what on the inside that counts! I was sure smart for figuring that out! After all, everyone has their own abilities!

Chapter 80 - Sharon-Chatting

My wonderful twin sister led the way with me helping her. Although she was leading the crowd with me, I could see her and chat with the teenage worker Scott who decided to escape Jacque. I started chatting with him too.

He was super outgoing and friendly. He looked a little like David: mop of dark brown hair, but big curious hazel eyes that seemed to take in everything. The only big difference was Scott looked well-fed and was slightly tan from working in the sun. He was a little "creepy": his teeth were so white that he didn't look like a worker. He looked like one of those cute dudes that did one of those commercials where people show off their teeth. Weird.

Oh well. We just kept on chatting. From picking fruit to adorable animals, there was always something to talk about. The time passed by really quickly.

Chapter 81 - Andy-Sigh...that Larry

"I dreamt that Catie and Sharon were fighting over me." Larry told me and David blankly. We were in his dad's car, still driving surrounded by workers. "I was so happy until I was woken up by Dad. I was busy avoiding Catie and Sharon that I didn't notice all the workers. I was filled with anger when I saw Sharon and Catie leading the way. Sigh. Where am I? What is happening? I was confused. Oh well."

David and I glanced at each other and covered our ears. Why was Larry so talkative? He was alright until yesterday night. He should make up with my sisters.

No offense, but Larry was really selfish. I liked David much better. He didn't rant on about little things. Also, he was fun to talk to!

Chapter 82 - Catie-Friends Again

Sharon and I led the way to the police station and we talked to this awesome dude named Scott. He was ten times nicer than Larry anyways. I was glad that we had another friend since I was sure Larry hated us now. We were crossing the street when I felt someone squeeze in between Sharon and I. I turned to see the "Vampire Jr." looking at Sharon angrily while holding on to Snowy's collar.

"When did you get out of the car?" I half-asked half-commented.

"None of your business." He replied still glaring at Sharon. My awesome sister ignored him.

We walked in total coldness for a long while until we felt a second person squeeze in. It was Andy.

"Really?" He said all grown-up like (mainly to Larry). "You guys are all acting like 7 year olds, oh wait that is me. You guys are acting like a bunch of umm... newborns! Oh wait, they can't talk. Whatever, the point is that I am surprised. I mean, wow, I can't believe you guys. Why are you guys forever arguing? I thought you guys were best buddies!"

Sharon's jaw dropped to the floor. I gasped. When had Andy grown up so much? I mean, a seven year old intervened when we had a problem. He even stopped calling us "Sissies!"

Larry, to my surprise, broke out laughing. "All right, all right! This little dude makes everything seem much worse than it really is. I'm sorry!" He hugged Andy, my sister, and me lightly. (I was happy that to see Scott looking happy for us. He really was so nice!)

Chapter 83 - David-There It Is!

I was in the car with Larry and Andy, with Catie and Sharon giving directions. Larry jumped out of the car with Andy following to stand next to Catie, Sharon, and Scott. I was alone in the car with Mr. Johnston until both of them jumped back, looking happy.

Suddenly, in the midst of our conversation, Andy screamed with joy. "There is the police station! I see it! We are right next to it!" His dirty-blonde hair flipped up and down as he bounced in the car seat. It looked fun, so I joined him.

"Why do we need to go here?" I asked curiously as we parked just outside of a tall, clean looking building.

"We need to tell the police about Jacque." Sharon answered as she was approaching us. I still was confused. "She kidnapped Sharon, and abused you." Catie explained.

"And forced us to be her slaves!" Scott added. He was right behind Catie. "We had to work all day long and we couldn't get any kind of breaks. To make matters worse, she kidnapped all of us when we were kids! Well, she adopted the some workers, like me, when we were in the orphanage. She didn't pay us because she said that way she could save money!"

"Oh." I looked down. "But without Jacque, who would take care of me?" the others looked surprised at my sad face.

Mr. Johnston put his arms around me. "If it is okay with you, I'll adopt you. After all, I am your step dad! You can live with me, Larry, and hopefully Eileen."

I smiled tearfully and gratefully.

Chapter 84 - Sharon-A Talk

We walked into the police station, workers and all. I was surprised to see that it was almost empty. Only a few police officers hung around. Mr. Johnston went to the front desk and the others tagged behind.

"Hi... kidnapped... child abuse...managed to escape..." was the snippets of his words that I managed to hear.

I don't know why I was nervous, I mean, I was in safe custody right now.

"Sharon and David! The police want to have a talk with you." Mr. Johnston called. I grasped David's shaking little fingers and we hastily walked up to the police. We were asked all sorts of questions. It went so quick that I didn't remember any of them, except for "Are you hurt?" The policewoman (named Villa Waters) looked nice and comforting, not all western-like as I imagined most police to be.

After a bazillion questions, we were led to a big conference-looking room where I found the others gobbling sandwiches and sipping apple juice. Snowy had a bowl of water and ate our scraps. I realized that my stomach was grumbling and I was thirsty. I quickly sat down and eagerly bit into a sandwich.

Chapter 85 - David-Interview

The police named Alvin interviewed all of us, even the workers. He recorded what we said. The police asked for Mommy's location, so they could track her down easier. However, Mr. Johnston never knew her address. He just remembered the roads he traveled to her place. We waited as Mr. Johnston went with the officers to find Mommy. They came back empty handed four hours later.

"I went along the road where I tricked Catie and Andy into my car," Mr. Johnston explained to us. "But since I haven't been in that road for a long time, I forgot how I got there. I even tried to trace our steps to the route on where we escaped, but since I did so many random devious turns, I got lost again. Even her wine product says the location of her factory, not her grape field/ home. I told the police that Jacque's fort is somewhere in the Dawn Forest, but that barely narrowed down the search, since there were a lot of rich vine growers living there, and there is way more than one Jacque Williams living in the Dawn Forest. Looks like Jacque was in luck, for the time being."

By the time we could leave, it was already five o' clock in the afternoon! The police took us for a ride in her awesome car. First, she was going to drop Mr. Johnston, Larry, and me off at the Johnston's' house. (Mr. Johnston wasn't allowed to drive in his van anymore because it was too damaged even though the workers did their fixing.) Mr. Johnston had talked with Eileen, and not only that they made up, she willingly let the workers stay at the house. The workers had already walked alone (with a police officer) to the house. They were going to stay there just for just one night, and in the next morning, the police would track down their families.

We were all in a good mood as we pulled in a magnificent house.

"Whoa!" Catie said as she inspected the fancy three-story mansion. "This is where you live?" she asked Larry.

"Yeah, it is better on the inside." He replied boastfully.

Snowy ran ahead and zestfully frolicked in the green grass.

As I went out of the car, I gave all my new friends a hug.

"Bye!" they cried.

"See you soon!!" Andy smiled.

"Visit us often!" I cried. "You know where we live!" We had exchanged addresses already. We only lived three blocks apart!

The police door closed, and the window rolled down. Andy, Catie, and Sharon waved goodbye. I stood and waved back until they were only a dot in the road.

Chapter 86 - Sharon-Just Wait Until They Know!

Looking back, I thought it was foolish of me to be afraid of an alleyway when so many other scary things were lurking there waiting for me. But of course, the alleyway was the cause for all of them.

"Look Sharon and Andy!" Catie yelled, looking out the open police car window. "Remember our doorman? Remember how he was staring at us when Andy charged out the door, and I ran after him." She laughed, looking down her dirty purple pajamas and Uggs.

I smiled tiredly and yawned. This was a perfect ending. More friends, and despite the trouble, I had a good adventure.

"I can't wait to see Mommy and Daddy!" Andy squealed excitedly. "They should be back from their program!"

"Me too!" Catie and I said in unison.

"Hey, I just realized that it is still winter break!" I gave an exuberant shout, forgetting about me being lethargic.

"Wait until our parents hear about our adventures!" Andy giggled as Catie pushed open the police car door.

Andy ran ahead into the elevator and waited for Catie and me to catch up. We all waved goodbye to Villa, but we were all surprised when she followed us.

"Just in case," she informed us.

Catie, Andy, and I chatted about how Mom and Dad would react when they saw that we were home. We had decided not to call them in advance. We all wanted to surprise them. The elevator door opened, and we all rushed to our apartment door. Villa calmly walked behind.

Catie pulled out a key from under the Welcome mat. She handed it to me, and I unlocked the door. All of us pushed the door open together. Smiling at each other for the first time in our building, my siblings and I rushed into our familiar home.

******

The end

