 
The Philosophy of Christ

### Copyright © 2013 Bryan Scott Butler

### Smashwords Edition

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then you should return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

• • •

Table of Contents

Title Page

To the Reader

Recorded Truth

Unknown Truth

Individual Truth

The Universal Truth

Everything: Zero and One

Everything: Color

Everything: Light

Everything: Temperature

Everything: Frequency

Everything: Elements

Everything: DNA

Everything: Proton, Electron, and Neutron

Everything: The White and Black Elementary Particles

Infinity Sequences: The Beginning

Infinity Sequences: Division

Infinity Sequences: Finding Sequences

Infinity Sequences: Tracking Sequences

Infinity Sequences: Multiplication

Infinity Sequences: The Universal Infinity Symbol of Truth

The Origins of Existence

Physical Evolution

Mental Evolution

Emotional Evolution

The Tree of Complete Separation

The Tree of Partial Separation

The Tree of No Separation

Falling, the Fallen, and the Rise of the Three Seeds

Every Seed Will Be Saved

Fishers of Men

Turning Water into Wine

The Pitchfork

The Coin in the Fish's Mouth

The Last Supper and the Cup of Life

The Trial of the Mind

The Rooster Crowed Three Times

The Trial of the Body

The Sacrifice

Rise of the Fallen Healer

A New Religion

The Three Churches

All Seeds Are Replanted

Genesis in Hourglass

The New Testament in an Hourglass

Revelations in an Hourglass

The Prayer Effect

Leftover Food

• • •

To the Reader

'This book is, the Theory of ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and ABSOLUTLEY INFINITE: Universal Truth, Absence of Truth, Time, Absence of Time, Mathematics, Absence of Mathematics, Science, Absence of Science, Religion, Absence of Religion, Faith, Absence of Faith, Origins, Absence of Origins, Christ, Absence of Christ, Existence, Nonexistence, and Everything that is Infinite between Finite Possibilities.'

All the individual religions and their individual believers on Earth will continue to fight over who is a real believer and who isn't. Individual believers will continue to tell others and us that if we don't believe in their individual interpretation of EXISTENCE AND NONEXISTENCE then we will go to Hell.

REMEMBERANCE, Remembrance and remembrance:

What is Hell? No forgiveness, no confession, and no temperance.

What is Earth? Forgiving all, confessing to all and returning to all temperance.

What is Heaven? Forgiven all, confessed to all, and returned to all temperance.

In my right hand, if we believed in anything this world said to us then we would die and go to Hell: no forgiveness, no confession and no temperance.

In my left hand, if we rejected everything this world said to us then we would die and go to Hell also: no forgiveness, no confession and no temperance.

We can choose to forgive this world, for it knows not what it says.

We can choose to confess to this world, for it knows not what it does.

We can choose to practice temperance, for this world knows not where it is going: FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERANCE.

We can love GOD with all our heart, mind and soul and we can love our neighbor as our self. We can love our family, neighbor and enemy for GOD is one written word, One Spoken Word and ONE LIVING WORD.

In my left hand, the greatest question of all: who am I, Who Am I and WHO AM I?

In my right hand, my name "Bryan" has no weight; the substance of who I am is what has weight. Many know my name but few know who I am. Do I stand alone? My life is mine to live, and my life can't be taken away: I am, I am who I am. Nor is it possible to take away someone else's interpretation of NONEXISTENCE AND EXISTENCE: I am, I am who I am. Our individual interpretation of GOD is built upon solid rock: three keystones.

**The first keystone:** **GOD**.

Who is, GOD? When we were children we instinctively knew that we were part of one family, a Larger Family and the FAMILY of GOD. GOD is: absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. GOD is: absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE. There is no Greater FAMILY; there is no Greater LOVE; there is no Greater GOD. THE ALPHA and THE OMEGA: 'ONE WORD' is, ETERNAL; 'GOD' is, ONE WORD.

The second keystone: Faith.

'GOD' is, ABSOLUTELY INIFINITE. 'GOD' is, ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. IN-BETWEEN THE BEGINNING and THE END, THE HANDS of TIME were in the process of coming together as one, One and ONE. THE BEGINNING and THE END: there is only 'one time, One Time and ONE TIME.'

'Humanity is the expression of one human being's potential—One Category: Human (a beginning and an end). In-between the beginning and the end, there was nothing that humanity did to one another that humanity did not also do to oneself. Outside of perception, there was no separation. To forgive one human being was to forgive humanity—to condemn one human being was to condemn humanity—know thyself, others and ALL ELSE.'

In my left hand, original sin rippled out creating Hell on Earth: no forgiveness, no confession, and no temperance.

In my right hand, Forgiving All, Confessing to All and Returning to All Temperance rippled back: FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERANCE (ONE FAMILY HOME—ONE HEAVEN—ONE ALMIGHTY CLAP—ONE PRAYER ANSWERED).

The third keystone: Universal Truth.

What is, the 'Universal Truth?' When we were children, we learned about north, south, east, and west. As time passed, our knowledge increased. We were building upon this truth. Our foundation was laid, and we started grabbing bricks. One and zero, white and black, quiet and loud, light and dark, hot and cold, bitter and sweet, silence and sound, heavy and light. What was bound in the day we loosened at night? Doctor attracts patient. Negative seeks positive. Answers heal all questions' wounds. Together they live, apart they die. The Universal Truth moves elsewhere.

The Universal Truth is binary—zeros and ones. The Universal Truth is scientific. It demonstrates both attractive and repulsive forces. The Universal Truth is philosophical as is yin and yang. The Universal Truth can be found within "every" faith, every aspect of science, and every mathematical equation. The Universal Truth can be found in a mustard seed and it can also be found in us. The deciphering of one faith allows for the deciphering of all faiths ("know thyself").

Life was intriguing, and we began our journey through it. We had questions. We felt hungry, and we wanted to learn. When we were hungry, we felt bad. When we ate, we felt better. When we were full, we felt we had found the solution. Questions were our hunger. Eating was the answer, but satiation was both—understanding. It was exciting to open a door, watch it opening and closing, then quickly shut it. We would breathe slowly in until our lungs were full, hold our breath, and then exhale as fast as we could until our lungs were empty. It was exhilarating to run, slowly increasing speed until we were running as fast as we could. Quickly we would slow down and stop. Everywhere we looked we could see the other children playing with our mutual friend, The Universal Truth, in their own way.

We existed within the boundaries of our existence and nonexistence: possibilities were finite. Our mind was working on universal knowledge, and all else that was created in that likeness. We did not know that those who were living in this world could not answer our deepest and most sincere questions about 'ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE: Universal Truth, Absence of Truth, Time, Absence of Time, Mathematics, Absence of Mathematics, Science, Absence of Science, Religion, Absence of Religion, Faith, Absence of Faith, Origins, Absence of Origins, Christ, Absence of Christ, Existence, Nonexistence and Everything that is Infinite between Finite Possibilities.'

Our youthful trust and our simplistic knowledge for, and of, the world began to disintegrate as we were told over and over that the answers to our questions were unknowable. It was suggested that this book of knowledge was not meant for us to open, and our body, emotions, and mind should move on with life while piling on the darkness of unanswered questions. As we wandered down our suggested path to death, our footprints imprinted deeper on the ground than our body weight should have allowed. When we looked behind us we saw a trail of heavy sadness. As a gentle wind blew through our hair, we looked up at the stars and our spirits suddenly became filled with Hope. We looked forward in time and at that moment we decided that we would no longer continue to dig our own grave with our footsteps.

Lesser Universal Truths were understood. Greater Universal Truths were also understood. That in turn indicated that 'ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE' could be understood in the end. DNA unfolded in every possible direction inside the womb, and, likewise, every individual's physical, mental, and emotional exploration unfolded outside of it: 'absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING—absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite, and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.'

The final prophecy is this: every tree, sprout and seed will return to "THE SOURCE OF ALL LIFE."

The Sun of GOD is the Living Will and Word of GOD. We came from the Sun of GOD. We will return to the Sun of GOD. Time is an illusion: spirit, Sun and GOD—one, One and ONE—I am, I Am and I AM—energy, Energy and ENERGY.

Little children were entrusted with the keys. We stand before the Gates of Heaven—we face our fears (forgive all, confess to all and return to all temperance). We unlock what we ourselves locked and "The Mystery of GOD" is no more—we came from GOD, FAITH and UNIVERSAL TRUTH—we return to GOD, FAITH and UNIVERSAL TRUTH.

Every seed that falls to Earth needs time to "grow and blossom into that which we are at present incapable of fully understanding." GOD is: "THE ONE TREE" that bears good fruit. We sprout with a helping hand from "The Everlasting Gardner." We continue to travel towards the light and into the embracing arms of "THE CREATOR."

Those who seek GOD, FAITH and UNIVERSAL TRUTH will appreciate their simplicities. The problem is even simpler: I don't know, I can't learn and I will never understand.

Open any religious book, spiritual book, scientific book or mathematical book—put your finger down anywhere on any page and read. Thus, the promise will be kept...

• • •

The single category—truth—represents all truths: recorded truth, unknown truth, individual truth, and Universal Truth.

Recorded Truth

Time can be seen as a collection of moments. Every moment of death is also a moment of rebirth. Who everyone was, a moment ago, is not who we are now: we just died, we were just made anew and we were just born again. Life and death are an illusion. Everywhere we look: life and death. Life and death are both infinite and finite: everyone constantly dies, everyone is constantly made anew and everyone is constantly born again. When our Earthly bodies die, all time will pass. We will then comprehend 'ONE HEAVENLY BODY', as will all others, from which 'ETERNAL TIME' came.

Time reaches a point when all events have been recorded, and that is "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING." The infinity hour glass of time will then flip over and start the process again. The record is not erased, is erased, and then is being written. This is true, not true, and in the process of becoming true.

Cause and effect leave ripples of evidence in the pool of existence. When the ripples can expand no farther, all of existence will ripple back to the point of disturbance. Like breathing in and out, all of existence will take another breath. All possible space will fill as it was before as "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" continuously inhales and exhales life into existence.

Finally, 'ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING will take one last breath and exhale into the Cosmos. Thus, it will be accomplished: LIFE, Life, life, Life and LIFE. It will only be a matter of time, Time and TIME until ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE is born again.'

As the present turns into the past and the future unfolds, truth is recorded in THE FABRIC OF EXISTENCE FOR ETERNITY. Our lives are books. With every step we take, we fill the pages. When the last words have been written and our books have closed, our testaments will be found in their place on a shelf in the Library of Time. In the end, every individual book will be a chapter in the Largest Book of All—THE BOOK OF LIFE.

Unknown Truth

Belief in the recorded truth is where the historical idea for THE BOOK OF LIFE came from: the idea of starting over led to the thought that if an individual truth made what was perceived to be hellish decisions during their life, then they would be in that hell for eternity because their life would happen over again repeatedly. Moreover, at one point it was thought that every individual truth had only one variation of their life to live, like a straight line, to which they were bound. There were those who were thought to be blessed, partially blessed, or damned. There was no mercy, only favoritism. Those eyes were nearsighted and their vision fell short of absolutely everything and absolutely infinite.

The fastest rate of travel is instantaneous; the limit of possibilities gives way to nothing faster. Time is an instantaneous hourglass and the passage of time within it is an illusion; correspondingly, our complete existence is an instantaneous hourglass and the life we live within it is an illusion. Outside and inside an individual life there are possible choices, and for those possible choices, all of them haven't been chosen, are being chosen, and have been chosen based on inside and outside unfolding environmental influences. (This gives us the freedom to move throughout our environment.) There are as many different variations of our lives to live as there are choices to make, and for each choice another dimension is added. The astronomical number of lives, that an individual has to live, will be fully satisfying. When a life has completely unfolded, then that will be everything for an individual being. Like every individual color, there will be the best of what makes us who we are, the worst of what makes us who we are and everything in between (which is humble). Our soul is an amalgamated expression: we are mandatory for the existence of all others and all others are mandatory for the existence of ourselves. Earthly minds and bodies are ephemeral. They return to dust but our souls remain eternal.

Our nonexistence and existence together created everything when it comes to us. When our Earthly minds were fashioned they were undeveloped physically, mentally, and emotionally: unknown truth. In the early stage of our perception of "EXISTENCE, and NONEXISTENCE", we felt isolated. We shivered with cold. We babbled like a baby. The emptiness of an unknown truth had evolved into an individual truth.

Individual Truth

One's truth is one's perception of reality. During life, an individual learns from experience, and their perception changes. My individual truth at one point, expressed poetically, is as follows: everyone started out falling through space, discharged particles from the Sun. I saw my brothers and sisters floating down beside me. I saw beautifully colored souls all around as far as my eyes could see. Some around me descended faster than others. I heard what sounded like wind whooshing past me as I fell. My parents were in front of me as we approached our destination. I watched as they were magnetically pulled into the brilliantly colored, rocky, mountainous boundary of Earth. Only a few moments passed as I followed, but years went by on Earth. Traveling through a tunnel toward the light, I soon took my first breath; I was born.

Those who had lived and died before me had built the Earth. Knowledge had been left, like snow, waiting to be packed by those who would follow. My understanding of the world was as small as a snowflake, and the world was blanketed with information. My life started to roll and I grew larger. I realized that someday my life would come to an end, but I had no fear. Would I be traveling through a tunnel toward the light again?

There are questions and there are answers. Together they comprise understanding.

The Universal Truth

'There is: absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. So, too, there is: absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE. The Universal Truth binds both infinite and everything together for eternity.'

To understand the terms everything and infinite an individual must turn to science, self-evident Universal Truths, and all other reflections that make up existence. The smallest Universal Truths in faith, mathematics and science are reflections of Larger Truths. There is no evidence in my observations for "infinite possibilities" outside the boundaries of the Universal Truth.

The Universal Truth is the threaded code within "EXISTENCE AND NONEXISTENCE", which allows all languages to be deciphered. When an individual's truth has evolved into understanding the Universal Truth, he or she will speak with that tongue, because the Universal Truth is the tongue that is universally relatable. Speaking with this connective universal tongue allows for all that is unknown and incomprehensible, to become known while looking through the decipherable lens of relatable, self-evident, Universal Truths. The Universal Truth is binary: 0 and 1.

Everything: Zero and One

Single ones are the building blocks for numbers and sequences in every counting system. Larger numbers were created to distinguish one number from another because they all looked the same (single ones). For example, the number ten is used to represent ten ones (1111111111). All numbers of value are created from single digits. Underneath those building blocks is the unshakable foundation that all numbers, infinity sequences, and their symbols emerged from (one and zero).

...11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111...

...10101010101010101010101010101010101010101010...

The number one and the placeholder zero will validate the Universal Truth as well as show how they are the foundation for every number, every mathematical equation and all infinity sequences.

All numbers of value are created from single ones. Zero is the placeholder signifying no value as shown below.

Before zero was introduced as a placeholder, an empty space was sometimes used to represent it. When adding zero to the number one, the mathematical answer appears to be only one, shown below. When the one is taken away, the zero is revealed.

The mathematical equations above go together like two sides of a coin. Together they equal valuable understanding. Trying to separate two sides of a coin shatters credibility.

How can there be one without the other? Outside of perception, the question would not exist if the answer did not. The mathematical equations (0 + 1 = 1 and 1 - 1 = 0) are the foundation upon which all mathematical equations rest. Likewise, one and zero are the foundation upon which all other numbers were built. The number one and the placeholder zero are all that are needed to create all other numbers. Numbers can be used universally to represent all else. All numbers were created from single ones, and that, in itself, is inescapable proof of zero's existence.

Zero is not absolutely zero; it simply represents the truth that there is absolutely zero. A single one represents the truth that there is the accumulation of all single ones, i.e., THE LARGEST ONE. Single ones perpetually combine to create THE LARGEST ONE. 'THE LARGEST ONE and ABSOLUTELY ZERO are ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING when it comes to numbers, and all that is ABSOLUTELY INFINITE. All other numbers within them were made in their image.'

The process of infinity occurs within the parameters set by 'ABSOLUTELY ZERO AND ONE HUNDRED PERCENT OF ALL NUMBERS.'

'The Universal Truth is: absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and all that is absolutely infinite, Absolute Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.'

Everything: Color

A computer works with only ones and zeros in its binary code. The computer is a virtual world existing in a real world that has its binary code as well: absolutely something and absolutely nothingness, the DNA of absolutely everything.

White is a combination of all the primary colors, and black is the absence of them. When it comes to color, black, and white are everything; therefore, black and white will be used to represent the most and the least in all other categories, just as one and zero will be. A substance that appears black is not absolutely nothingness; it simply represents the truth that there is absolutely nothingness. One of the properties of absolutely nothingness is the absence of color.

Everything: Light

Colors are directly linked to the category of light. For example, it is no mystery that grass that is visibly green is not really green; it only reflects that color better than it reflects other colors. Light and dark together allow for colors to be seen. Without light there can be no dark. Darkness, in itself is inescapable proof that there is light. All the primary rays of light together create white light. Within the category of white light, there is both cold white light and hot white light. Cold white light has the potential to become hot white light, and they are permanently interconnected. The opposite of white light is black dark or the absence of light. White light and black dark are everything when it comes to the category light. Black dark is not absolutely nothingness; it simply represents the truth that absolutely nothingness exists. One of the properties of absolutely nothingness is the absence of light.

The Sun gives off light, and the pupils allow light to pass through.

Everything: Temperature

The common notions of hot and cold, temperature, can be seen as thermometric. Although temperature is not a direct measurement of heat, something that feels cold generally has a low temperature; likewise, something that feels hot generally has a high temperature. It has long been established that one of the principal limits of thermodynamics is temperature. If two entities have the same temperature (neutral), no net heat flow occurs; otherwise, heat flows from the object with the higher temperature to the object with the lower one. This process goes on for infinity within the boundaries of everything.

All the primary degrees of temperature create the white temperature. Within the category of white temperature, there is white cold frequency and white hot frequency, which are permanently interconnected as one. The category of white temperature is inescapable proof, in itself, that there is the absence of temperature. The opposite of the category white temperature is the absence of temperature.

The white temperature and the absence of temperature are everything, when it comes to the category of temperature. A substance without temperature is not absolutely nothingness; it simply represents the truth that there is absolutely nothingness. One of the properties of absolutely nothingness is the absence of a temperature.

Everything: Frequency

A wave is a disruptive disturbance that communicatively spreads, reproducing throughout space and time, usually with the transfer of energy.

High-frequency waves are inescapable proof that low-frequency waves exist. All the primary waves of frequency create the white frequency. Within the category of white frequency, there is white elemental noise and white elemental peace. White peace has the potential to become white noise, just as white cold has the potential to become white heat. White peace and white noise are permanently interconnected. There is the category white frequency, and that is inescapable proof, in itself, that there is the absence of frequency. The white frequency and the absence of frequency are everything when it comes to the category of frequency.

A substance without a frequency is not absolutely nothingness; it simply represents the truth that there is absolutely nothingness. One of the properties of absolutely nothingness is the absence of a frequency.

Everything: Elements

All larger categories can be broken down into their smaller categories and all smaller categories can recombine. The category element is the largest category that all other categories exist in. The periodic table of elements can be seen as a tabular display of the discovered chemical elements. The layout of the table continues to be refined as new elements are unearthed. New theoretical models constantly emerge to explain the enchanting chemical behavior of elements.

The periodic table of elements:

Each chemical element can be distinguished by its atomic number. When colors are divided until they can be divided no further, every color shall be represented in the result. The total number of distinct colors is the same as the total number of distinct elements. All elements, both discovered and undiscovered, combine to create the White Element (Absolutely Something). Absolutely Something is the energetic array of all the independent primary elemental energy combined in a purified state (The Purest Form of Energy: The White Element).

The opposite of The White Element and all its properties is The Black Element. The Black Element is not used to represent absolutely nothingness; it is Absolutely Nothingness, i.e., the absence of color, light, frequency, temperature, and all other subcategories combined. The White and the Black Element are Absolutely Everything when it comes to the category Element; together they create all other elements.

Every category has a point that, when reached, is every possibility, such as: color, light, temperature, frequency, and element. Everything and Infinite, like two sides of a magnet, go together; it is not a matter of one or the other. 'The symbol for absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE is also the symbol for absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING.'

All things are made in this "Universal Image."

Everything: DNA

One of the greatest historic puzzlements of thought is this: How is a human being created? The healing pieces to the puzzle were found within beautifully packaged human DNA. The ons, offs, and varying neutrals can be compared to mathematically varying combinations of 0's and 1's.

When the package was opened, the puzzle began to be pieced together, and at last the whole human genome had been decoded. Because of laborious scientific work by Nobel scientists, the puzzle was now complete. With completion came a healing satisfaction.

Humans transferred the information from one person to another like brain cells firing!

DNA is made up of chemical building blocks called nucleotides. Four imperfectly labeled nitrogen bases are found in nucleotides: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). The sequence, of those bases is all that is needed to biologically instruct a strand of DNA. The structure of a DNA molecule is sometimes referred to as a helix (which is a pair of parallel helices running in opposite directions, intertwined, and held together by a neutral common backbone axis).

Within the helix, "A" forms hydrogen bonds with "T" (on the opposite strand), and "G" forms hydrogen bonds with "C" (on the opposite strand). The magnetic attraction of opposites holds a sequence of DNA together. Each DNA sequence contains specific instructions to make a protein and is commonly referred to as a gene.

One gene can be divided and vary greatly. There is a broad range, between one thousand nitrogen bases to one million of those bases, in humans. The result is: the complete DNA guidebook (whole genome).

Simplistic knowledge such as the left and right side of the human body, the Universal Truth, (together the whole body), was understood (before DNA was decoded) to be a mirrored reflection of what created it on the smallest unfolding level. The Universal Truth throughout, was, and forever will be intertwined throughout the human genome. Every human being was, is, and forever will be created in the image of the Universal Truth.

Everything: Proton, Electron, and Neutron

Another historic question: What creates life on a subatomic level? Intellectually gifted scientific minds, through many years of individual sacrifice, where able to simplify the building blocks of life into three subatomic particles that make life possible: proton, electron, and neutron. A proton has a positive charge. An electron has a negative charge. And a neutron has a neutral charge.

Simplistic knowledge such as, the northern and the southern hemisphere (together the Earth), was understood (before the building blocks of life were decoded) to be a mirrored reflection of what created it on the smallest subatomic level.

'There is absolutely something, Absolutely Something, and ABSOLUTELY SOMETHING. So, too, there is absolutely nothingness, Absolutely Nothingness, and ABSOLUTELY NOTHINGNESS.' The Universal Truth binds both something and nothingness together for eternity, Eternity and ETERNITY.

Everything: The White and Black Elementary Particles

Another historic question: what is the foundation of 'Absolutely Something and Absolutely Nothingness?' Within the building blocks of life there are the unshakable foundations they rest upon—the white and the black elementary particles.

A white elementary particle is the purest form of energy (absolutely something—the stem cell of existence). A black elementary particle is the absence of energy, (absolutely nothingness). In the absence of the compressed matter of substance, which holds the fabric of space together, the empty void of absolutely nothingness can appear.

Outside of a temporary perception, the white elementary particles and the black elementary particles have always been. All other elementary particles (like questions) between them are created.

Each particle variation can be distinguished by its mass, charge, and spin. The standard model of particle physics is electromagnetic: weak, and strong nuclear interactions, as well as the classification of all subatomic particles. When colors are divided until they can be divided no further, every color shall be represented in the result. The total number of distinct colors is the same as the total number of distinct subatomic particles.

The table of elementary particles:

EXISTENCE is made up of elementary white particles. EXISTENCE can be equal to the TOTALITY of white elementary particles. The ACCUMULATION is simply equal to itself (E = E), and NON-EXISTENCE is simply (NE = NE). 'The two equations are equal to ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING; the possibilities are ABSOLUTELY FINITE, and all that is ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.'

The four building blocks of DNA can be broken down to three building blocks of life. They can be broken down into the unshakable foundation: the black elementary particles and the white elementary particles. Finally, the black elementary particles and the white elementary particles can recombine to create the Pyramid of Truth.

Individuals and entire civilizations created symbols to represent their understanding of "EXISTENCE AND NONEXISTENCE." Every shape and symbol recombines to create a sphere again; every sphere and symbol divides until it can divide no further. Every shape and symbol unfolds in every possible direction and dimension until The Ultimate Universal Shape and Symbol resurfaces.

Infinity Sequences: The Beginning

In the past, present, and future, a sideways eight is, was, and will be created to represent the powerful image of 'absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING; absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.'

One divided by eighty-one equals the repeating infinity sequence, (1/81 = .0123456790123456790...), pictorially shown above. The eight is the only number missing from the sequence.

Eight divided by eighty-one is equal to the repeating infinity sequence, (8/81 = .0987654320987654320...), pictorially shown below. The one is the only number missing from this sequence.

One divided by eighty-one is equal to the first repeating number sequence (.0123456790123456790...,) from which the eight is missing). Multiplying that number sequence by eight is equal to the other sequence, (.0987654320987654320...), from which the one is missing).

The eight is missing from the first sequence. The one is missing from the second. Together the missing numbers appear as eighty-one.

The most basic exploration of these sequences will precede the main points.

1. The two infinity sequences are not "only" infinite sequences. They are "also" connected as one finite sequence.

2. Numbers are binary (0 and 1).

3. There is: 'absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING; absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.'

Infinity Sequences: Division

One divided by eighty-one,  , shown below.

Eight divided by eighty-one,  , shown below.

Infinity Sequences: Finding Sequences

The numbers one through nine (and the placeholder zero) are used in combination to create all other numbers in a base-ten counting system. For example, the number one billion two hundred thirty-four million five hundred sixty-seven thousand eight hundred ninety (1,234,567,890) contains the numbers one through nine and the placeholder zero. Numbers greater than nine can be broken down into one of the original nine numbers of value in a base-ten counting system.

For example, the number ten appears as a one and a zero (10). When one and zero are added together they equal one (1 + 0 = 1). Likewise, a count greater than nine can be broken down to one of the nine original numbers of value (as can all other numbers).

As the perceptual count increases, the numbers one through nine repeat themselves. In a base-ten counting system, the combinations of those numbers of value and the placeholder zero were used to create larger numbers to represent Larger Values.

The numbers twenty-six and seventeen are able to be broken down to eight, shown below. Nineteen and ten are able to be broken down to one, shown below.

To demonstrate that this way of breaking down numbers is mathematically factual: the numbers twenty-six, seventeen, and eight, when divided by eighty-one, result in the infinity sequence from which the one is missing. This is an inescapable fact. Likewise, nineteen, ten and one: when individually divided by eighty-one, result in the infinity sequence from which the number eight is missing.

When divided by eighty-one, any number that can be broken down to one or eight equals the appropriate infinity sequence. The last number on a calculator is based on how many places a calculator can hold, and is rounded up to stop the endless repeating infinity sequence.

Infinity Sequences: Tracking Sequences

The numbers 1, 10, 19, 28, 37, 46, 55, 64, 73, 82, 91 and 100 individually divided by eighty-one are equal to the sequence of numbers from which the eight is missing. Starting with the number one and increasing by increments of nine allows the first infinity sequence to be tracked. (All those numbers can be broken down to the number one (1 + 0 = 1).

Likewise, the numbers 8, 17, 26, 35, 44, 53, 62, 71, 80, 89, 98 and 107 individually divided by eighty-one are equal to the sequence of numbers from which the one is missing. Starting with the number eight and increasing by increments of nine allows the second infinity sequence to be tracked as well. (All those numbers can be broken down to the number eight (17 = 1 + 7 = 8).

Infinity Sequences: Multiplication

Using multiplication, the two infinity sequences are reestablished as one sequence.

When zero was used to hold two places the infinity sequence, from which the eight is missing, emerged. The other infinity sequence, from which the one is missing, begins to appear as the count continues to rise and fall.

This pattern continues to repeat itself as ones are multiplied.

Infinity Sequences: The Universal Infinity Symbol of Truth

Two parallel sequences.

1/81 = .012345679012345679...

8/81 = .098765432098765432...

One sequence.

...12345679012345679 00 98765432098765432...

The infinity sequence...

The mathematical proof: the two infinity sequences are one sequence. All numbers of value are created from single ones and zeros. In the beginning of multiplication there was zero and one. Outside of perception, there can't be addition without subtraction, and there can't be multiplication without its counterpart, division. The existence of one digit is, in itself, proof that there is an accumulation of all single digits—THE LARGEST ONE. This is also, in itself, proof of its counterpart ABSOLUTELY ZERO.

All numbers of value are created from single ones and zeros. The infinity sequence (from which the eight and one are missing) rests upon those building blocks.

...12345679012345679 00 98765432098765432...

...111111111111111111111111111111111111...

...101010101010101010101010101010101010...

Mathematically, scientifically and spiritually: 00 is closer to what 0ne and zer0 look like—not a straight line—1. Outside of perception, there is no distance between three points: there is no separation. The Universal Truth is binary: 0—1—00%.

'This basic truth has always been correct: absolutely something, Absolutely Something and ABSOLUTELY SOMETHING; absolutely nothingness, Absolutely Nothingness and ABSOLUTELY NOTHINGNESS. This is, isn't, and is in the process of being understood.

Perception creates reality and perceptions equal the totality of all realities. ABSOLUTELY SOMETHING AND ABSOLUTELY NOTHINGNESS, together, equal ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE, together, equal the ORIGINS OF EXISTENCE.'

The Origins of Existence

There are only so many possible answers to the question of "EXISTENCE AND NONEXISTENCE." Every possibility is, was, and will be explored forever. The mind, body, and emotions expand and contract, as does the Universe: 'absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING; absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.' The possibilities are absolutely finite, Absolutely Finite and ABSOLUTELY FINITE.

Currently there is a BLACK HOLE in the very center of EXISTENCE. THE LARGEST SUN (THE SOURCE OF ALL LIFE) will be the accumulation of ALL ENERGY. A SUPER NOVA OCCURRED UPON THE REBIRTH OF THE LARGEST SUN. In the meantime, (BETWEEN THE BEGINNING AND THE END), seeds were being planted. IN THE END OF THE SUN'S LIFE CYCLE THERE WAS ANOTHER SUPER NOVA (THE BIG BANG). Every single seed had been planted at that time. All that was divided would eventually be united once again.

A Sun holds The Fabric of Space together within its Celestial Body. In a Sun's absence, a Black Hole is revealed. In the absence of the Compressed Matter of a Substantive Sun the empty void of Absolutely Nothingness can appear. This is due to the WEIGHT of EXISTENCE on The FABRIC of SPACE.

A Black Hole is also the Womb in Space. Within this Womb began the purification process: The Division of the Seed and the Reunification of the Seed, into Solar System, Galaxy, and Universe...

Within a Black Hole, the Seed divided until it could divide no more. There remained Pure Energy (Absolutely Something, A New Sun) and the Absence of Energy (Absolutely Nothingness). The Sun was enveloped in the Darkness of Absolutely Nothingness. The only option left was to begin the Process of Expanding.

The Solar System began to take Form as time started ticking. The Sun was like a Heart, which supplied the lifeblood to the Brain (an Earth-Like Planet) and the Body (such as a Solar System). With every Heartbeat, the Mind and Body aged.

When the Heart stopped beating, the Solar System took its Last Breath and Exhaled into the Cosmos. The Sun had Transferred all its Undying Energy elsewhere, and THE FABRIC OF SPACE pulled apart in the Sun's absence.

Space was free to be occupied by another Sun. Celestial Bodies Continued to Sacrifice, Transfer Energy, Expand, Merge, and Grow. At the End of all Celestial Growth: THE LARGEST SUN and THE ONLY DARKNESS was, is and forever will be 'ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING and all that was ABSOLUTELY INFINITE.'

When it comes to the "ORIGINS OF EXISTENCE AND NONEXISTENCE, THE BEGINNING WAS THE END."

GOD is: absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. GOD is: absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE. There is no Greater FAMILY; there is no Greater LOVE; there is no Greater GOD. THE ALPHA and THE OMEGA: 'ONE WORD' is, ETERNAL; 'GOD' is, ONE WORD.

Physical Evolution

A white elementary particle is a seed, the core: the beginning and the end for an individual. Individuals are shaped like spheres and from the spheres all other shapes are created. All particle variations belong to, and return to, their source. Every shape and symbol recombines to create a sphere again; every sphere and symbol divides until it can divide no further. Every shape and symbol unfolds in every possible direction and dimension until the Final Universal Shape and Symbol EMERGES.

Within the center of every elementary "particle variation" there is a dilating degree of nothingness. The nothingness is like the pupil in the center of an eye, a black hole, or a mouth, and every particle variation starts out starving. Just like a pupil absorbs light, students absorb information, and black holes receive bodies like a stomach receives food.

A sphere has no limbs. Different elementary particles (different shapes) first developed as a way to defend the individual particle against the environment (only outside enemies), secondly they developed as a way of partnering with other elementary particles (some neighbors conditionally) and third as a way of partnering with all elementary particles (one family unconditionally). Each elementary particle can fit into one of those three behavioral classifications. And each elementary particle is paired with its' black elementary particle: absolutely nothingness.

Unwilling to sacrifice for anyone will evolve into willingly sacrificing for some and then into willingly sacrificing for all; infinite fluctuation occurs within the boundaries of finite possibilities. Without sacrifice, there would be no life. There is no other way for a larger body or mind to form without the sacrifice of others; every seed will return to that understanding.

When not knowing becomes knowing, a student becomes a teacher and teaches other students, and there is growth of knowledge. Every seed will grow until it is ready to be harvested. From within a black hole, a sun will rise. Out of no love, unconditional love will rise. Out of unknown truth, the universal truth will rise. The body, emotions and mind have their predestined evolutionary course.

Mental Evolution

Actions of complete separation (no mental, emotional, or physical connection to others) logically, scientifically, and mathematically lead to less connectivity in the physical mind. Actions of partial separation (some mental, emotional, or physical connection to others) lead to partial connectivity. Actions that came as a result of perceiving complete connection to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING, inside the mind, led to complete connectivity outside the mind."

Because everyone is completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING," the environment affects perceptions of separation and forces all minds to physically evolve due to the bombardment of outside influence. Early on, the outside influence was perceived to be the enemy, and so the mind developed ways of defending itself against it. Only the most primitive thoughts, emotions, and behaviors were able to be explored. Physical pathways in the mind that led to objective reasoning and advanced emotions were disconnected. Interaction with the outside environment created physical substance in the mind, such as a memory, new emotional experiences, and perceptual understandings gained from that experience.

After the mind unfolded in every possible direction and dimension of primitive thought, emotion, and behavior, the only option left was to open the next door. The next room of enlightenment, for the physical mind, was walked into and explored. Some enemies became neighbors, and physical pathways in the mind that led to objective reasoning, and advanced emotions began to be uncovered. Neighboring substances formed conditional relationships with one another, and more of the mind could be used.

When no separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" was perceived to be the truth, and when the mind acted on that perception, the doors to the highest level of connectivity began to be opened. Individuals willingly left their home of separation and gave without conditions based on names or anything else, and their reward was great. They brought bread (the universal truth), the water of life (unconditional love), and their body to sacrifice willingly for everyone who needed it. All possible pathways in the mind began to open. In the end, all individual minds became connected as one mind, and one hundred percent of the mind was able to be used. The highest level of connectivity within the mind required an individual to give up one's own separate self.

Connection outside the mind was directly linked to the degree of connectivity within the mind. Moreover, relationships that formed outside the mind, formed relationships inside the mind; there was no separation. Religion, Science, and Mathematics came into play when the smallest degree of connection to the outside environment was perceived to be the truth. Religion, Science, and Mathematics evolved as the physical, mental, and emotional parts of the mind evolved.

Individuals would divide until they could divide no further, and then they would begin to unite until the barrier of separation had completely dissolved. GOD is: absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. GOD is: absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE. There is no Greater FAMILY; there is no Greater LOVE; there is no Greater GOD. THE ALPHA and THE OMEGA: 'ONE WORD' is, ETERNAL; 'GOD' is, ONE WORD.

Emotional Evolution

When a male and female join and become one, a seed can go into the center of an egg, and there is growth of a species. As with every beginning, in my beginning, the Universal Truth was written in my DNA. My body's cells unfolded in every possible direction transferring the Universal Truth (ons, offs, and the varying combination of the two, neutrals), and I was created. In the womb, there was a feeling of being completely connected with "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" (UNCONDITIONAL LOVE), but when I was born I perceived there to be a complete separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" (no love). That feeling of detachment was a result of my mind being extremely undeveloped physically, emotionally, and mentally. I was unable to understand that I was not naked and alone, I was not cast out, and was still completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING." My physical, mental, and emotional evolution had, was, and would unfold in every possible direction and dimension just as it had done in the womb. Starting with no love I began to run and explore every degree of conditional love until I was running as fast as I could. No love would evolve into conditional love and then into unconditional love.

There is one mind, one body, and the emotions are connected also. Complete separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" is not possible outside of perception. Partial separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" is not possible outside of perception either. But perception creates an individual's reality! All science and faith-based books that teach complete separation and partial separation are therefore true, partially true, and false. Outside of those perceptions, there is no separation.

Everyone at first perceived complete separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" to be the truth. Individuals felt naked and alone, physically, emotionally, and mentally. Being completely separated was not true outside of awareness, but when that belief was perceived to be the truth, that perception became reality.

The Tree of Complete Separation

Every fruit that hung from the tree of complete separation was poison. The feeling, the belief, and then being physically separated from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" (no love), such as what is shown to enemies, over time created every individual action of emotion, action of thought, and action of the body that was primitive.

When everyone within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" was first exploring the possibility of no love, the fruit from the tree of complete separation was being eaten, and the process of trial and error for emotions began. Everyone within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" was perceived to be a rival, and so there were no neighbors, no families, only enemies. There was no give to me what is good or else an eye-for-an-eye-and-tooth-for-a-tooth yet, it was kill or be killed. Everyone lived by that sword, always were surrounded by enemies, and always died by that sword.

When everyone ate from the tree of complete separation (no love), they became mortally wounded. The children were given no clothes, (complete-separation teachings-mentally no love). So no leaves fell from the tree to cover and protect the seeds. After no love was absorbed physically and mentally, the seeds were given no water (emotionally no love), and so the seeds died and the soil produced no more crops.

It was like everyone had just run off a cliff, hit the bottom, and rose in another dimension. There was complete failure, but the failure would lead to success. A marker was placed in everyone's DNA, the door closed, and the next door was opened.

In the beginning of "awareness", there was complete separation: no family, no neighbors, only enemies. In the middle stage of awareness, there was some degree of partial separation. Some enemies would turn into neighbors, and some neighbors would be accepted as family. Likewise, some family would turn into neighbors and some neighbors would be completely rejected and become enemies. In the end, there would be no separation. All enemies would turn into neighbors, and all neighbors would be welcomed as family.' Till then the seeds needed time to grow.

The Tree of Partial Separation

After everyone had eaten every emotional fruit from the tree of complete separation, there was every degree of partial separation (conditional love) to explore as a possibility. The body still craved substance, the mind still craved knowledge, and the individual still craved emotions. So everyone within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" unfolded in every possible direction and dimension, and explored the possibility of conditional love by eating the fruit from the tree of partial separation.

The feeling of being partially separated from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" is not true outside of an individual's early perception. At one point the belief in partial separation was perceived to be the truth, and so that perception became reality for everyone within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING." Every emotional fruit that hung from the tree of partial separation (conditional love) was unhealthy. The feeling of partial separation, over time, created every individual emotion that was immature (a combination of enlightened and primitive emotions).

When partial separation was perceived to be the truth, the children were fed from the same tree that their parents were eating from, and so there was conditional love given physically, mentally, and emotionally. Love was shown to what was acceptable and no love was shown to what was unacceptable. But when no love was prescribed to part of an individual, as the cure, it actually damaged the whole individual. The moment conditional love was given was the moment all children became partially separated from their parents, but they no longer felt completely separated. The children were then given clothes (the conditional teachings-mental conditional love). The tree was no longer poison, but it was unhealthy. Only a few leaves fell onto the ground, which only provided partial protection for the seeds. After physical and mental conditional love were absorbed, the seeds were given unhealthy water (emotional conditional love). The seeds and the parents had been wounded; they were only partially healed, and so there was scarring mentally, emotionally, and physically. The very moment conditional love was first given was the very moment the first neighbor was created mentally and emotionally. When the children were partially kicked out of their home, they went and searched for their own garden, and both the parents and the children physically became the first neighbors.

Because no love had evolved into conditional love, what had previously been perceived as the truth (kill or be killed) evolved into give me what is good or else an eye-for-an-eye-and-tooth-for-a-tooth mentality. No love was certain death; conditional love increased the length of survival.

When conditional love was given, that meant there was the possibility that partial separation (conditional love-neighbor) could turn into complete separation (no love-enemy) for every parent and child, then, now, and in the future. The door to no love was still open, and it would lead to the fall of the whole body when it was walked through.

There is, was, and will be a time for evolving, and there is, was, and will be a time for devolving. If no love is called zero (not absolutely zero), conditional love starts at one, then falls back down to zero, then counts up to two, then falls back down to zero, and counts up to three. So on and off, then down and up, everyone within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" rose, fell, and then rose again.

At that point in the evolution of emotions, there was only conditional love for neighbors and no love for enemies. Unconditional love had yet to be explored by individuals. Everyone tried to defeat what they hated in themselves and their children with their weapons of conditional love and no love. First there were small wars of separation from the enemy, and afterwards neighbors would return home, and there was partial peace. But out of the category neighbor came more enemies, and as the population grew, there were larger wars of separation. Individuals were unfolding in every possible direction, exploring every degree of conditional love. Eventually there was no more room to separate from their enemy within or geographically outside of themselves.

The larger war of separation would take place at that time. Because separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" was not the truth outside of everyone's perception, all would lose the war to defeat their enemy with their weapons of partial separation and their weapons of complete separation. The flaw in conditional love (give me what is good or else an eye-for-an-eye-and-tooth-for-a-tooth mentality) would be exposed. When only enemies surrounded people, no love would be given, conditional love would disappear, and no love would be given in return. Those who believed in conditional love would become the enemy they were trying to kill. During the larger war of separation, it would be every man, woman, and child for themselves. There would again be no family, no neighbors, only enemies.

Everyone who ate from the tree of partial separation (conditional love) would again fall and perceive complete separation to be the truth. Everyone would become mortally wounded: emotionally, mentally, and physically. Empires would rise and fall during the largest wars of separation. Eventually all of civilization would be extinguished and have to start over. United everyone stood, and divided they all fell down the chain of partial separation until the bottom was reached. Everyone stayed down until the "only option left" was to get back up and try again.

There are individuals who have been born, individuals who are being born, and individuals who have yet to be born then, now, and in the future. When no love (what is given to enemies) is expressed emotionally, mentally, or physically, it ripples out, and an environment of complete separation (no love) is created. The environment that individuals create for others will be the humbling environment they create for themselves. What is done unto others is done to oneself; there is no separation. When individuals fall all the way down, they are forced to climb back up the chain of conditional love. Using the method of the elimination of options, individuals rise to give a little more love, empathy, understanding, and mercy to themselves and to others than had previously been given. Arrogance slowly begins to fade into humbleness as everyone within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" unfolds in every possible direction and dimension, gaining new experiences.

The Tree of No Separation

After everyone had eaten every emotional fruit from the tree of partial separation, there was then the feeling of being completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" to explore as a possibility. Always being connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" was completely true outside of an individual's perception, but it was not known for sure because the mind still craved knowledge, the body still craved substance, and the individual still craved emotions. So, individuals unfolded in every possible direction and dimension and began to eat its fruit.

Individuals tasted the fruit by giving unconditional love to only some. There were those who saw themselves as blessed (family regardless of what they did, and they believed they were forgiven and healed). Others were seen as unblessed (potential family or potential enemy, only partially forgiven and left scarred). Others were seen as damned and completely rejected as forever enemies (never forgiven and always left mortally wounded). The family, neighbor, and enemy within those who perceived themselves to be favored tasted unconditional love, but the neighbor and enemy outside of them would be given conditional love and no love to eat. Everyone was completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING," and so what was given to the whole body outside of all individuals was given back to the whole body of an individual. The moment unconditional love was not given to the neighbor and enemy outside of the perceived favored was the moment they fell within themselves. Eventually the door to conditional love and no love was completely closed, and unconditional love for all was opened. All arrogance that was previously in the process of becoming humble became humbled.

Every emotional fruit that hung from the tree of no separation (unconditional love) was healthy. The feeling of everyone being completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING," over time, created every individual emotion that was good. When unconditional love for everyone was perceived to be the truth, the children were fed from the same tree that their parents were eating from, and they were not cast out physically. They were then given clothes (unconditional teachings-mental unconditional love). Several leaves fell from the tree of no separation and provided complete protection for the seeds. After physical and mental unconditional love was absorbed, the seeds were given the water of life (emotional unconditional love). The seeds that were killed were brought back to life. The seeds that were wounded were completely healed, and there was no more scarring.

As the children grew, unconditional love continued to be given to their emotions, the universal truth was given to their minds, and the parents physically led by example while the children learned what could not be learned for them. Everyone would eventually understand that they were part of 'ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING: ONE FAMILY.' All three areas have, are, and will evolve through the refining process of trial and error. In the end the emotions will feel heavenly, the mind will have heavenly thoughts, and the body will be fully connected. At that point individuals will leave their Heavenly Garden (Family) Willingly.

Falling, the Fallen, and the Rise of the Three Seeds

We saw those who could once see go blind, those who could once hear go deaf, and those who could once feel went numb. Their happiness turned into a knee-dropping sadness, and then into a mental lack of empathy for others. We watched as their love turned into dislike and then into an intolerable hate. Their courage turned into fear and then into a petrified, terror-stricken, and deathly state of mind. Their trust turned into doubt and then into no faith in what was good. Their humbleness turned into partial humility and then into arrogance. Their honesty turned into partial truths and then into complete lies. Their forgiveness turned into partial forgiveness and then into a blameful condemnation. Their healing turned into wounding and then into killing. Their kindness turned into cruelty and then into a barbaric ruthlessness. Their willingness to sacrifice for others turned into greed and then into gluttony. Their protection for all turned into selective protection and then into exclusive self-preservation. We watched as those who were once alive died, and they walked amongst the living. They were those who had fallen down the chain of conditional love and were eating from the tree of complete separation (no love).

But then we saw the children who were blind receive sight, those who were deaf began to hear, and those who were numb began to feel. Their exclusive self-preservation turned into selective protection and then into protection for all (family, neighbor, and enemy). Their gluttony turned into greed and then into a willingness to sacrifice for all. Their ruthlessness faded into cruelty and then into a compassionate, humane kindness. Their killing turned into wounding and then into alleviating the pain, mending those in agony, and healing all who suffer. Their condemnation turned into partial forgiveness and then into complete forgiveness. Their complete lies turned into partial truths and then into the complete truth. Their arrogance turned into partial humility and then into humbleness. Absence of faith turned into doubt and then into trust. Being terrified turned into being afraid and then into courage. Their hate turned into like and then into love for what was good. Their numbness turned into sadness and then into a joyful happiness. We watched as the dead were brought back to life. They were those who had climbed up the chain of conditional love and were eating from the tree of no separation (unconditional love).

Every Seed Will Be Saved

Every seed that fell on the path where there was no soil was picked up and planted. Every seed that fell in shallow soil where the roots could not grow was picked up and placed in what was healthy. No seed was left behind. When the weeds (outside teachings of no love) were choking the young sprouts, the weeds were cut down and not forcefully pulled out (no love) or the young sprouts would be pulled up with the weeds and die. Every sprout was tended to with unconditional love (mentally, emotionally, and physically—THE WILL OF GOD). When the crops were ready they were HARVESTED. Bread was made and GOD used the Bread-THE WORD of GOD, for fishing.

Fishers of Men

The fish who were starving gathered around for true knowledge, and the Bread was broken and fed to them. Thy will was going to be done and GOD'S WORD was going to be heard. Love your family was one loaf of bread, and it was broken into love your neighbor and love your enemy, for GOD is ONE. Unconditional love was broken into conditional love and no love. Light was broken into dim and dark. Heaven was broken into Earth and hell, and what started as ONE LOAF (ONE FAMILY) began to break into many others, and suddenly there was plenty of bread to feed the whole crowd.

But the people who were eating were filled with dislike and hate. They were afraid and terrified. They were filled with partial humility and arrogance. They told partial truths and complete lies. They gave partial forgiveness and blameful condemnation to others. They were wounding and killing each other. They were cruel and ruthless, greedy and gluttonous. Their protection for each other became selective, and they began to slip into self-preservation above all else. The healers saw the storm brewing, but they showed no fear. The bread was the bait, the water of life was going to be used to heal them, and then the fish would be set free.

The healers were in the safety of their boat, overlooking the crowd to whom they were speaking. This storm was horrible, and they did not know if it was a good day to fish. But then they watched as the healers humbly stepped down and out of their boat one by one, which showed those who were arrogant what humbleness looked like. The healers brought bread, the water of life, and their body, which was to be sacrificed. At that point they felt no fear, and so they stood on water, and then walked amongst the crowd healing them.

It was a fierce battle between good and evil. Healers were being stoned, mentally, emotionally, and physically. While being stoned, one healer became fearful and began to sink with doubt, but then another Healer reached out and reminded the fearful of what courage and trust look like. "Be not afraid, take my hand, and we will face this storm together." What was offered was taken, and those who were filled with fear and horror, were shown courage. Those who gave partial forgiveness and condemnation were being forgiven. Those who told partial truths and complete lies were being given the universal truth. Those who were filled with dislike and hate, were being given the water of life: unconditional love.

When the healers turned the other cheek (a display of unconditional love), the healers did not become worse and then primitive. Instead, primitiveness outside of the healers was turning into what was better and then into what was best. Those who were wounding and killing were being healed! We saw those who were blind begin to see, those who were deaf begin to hear, and those who were numb begin to feel. The crowd was coming to life! Their self-preservation turned into selective protection and then into protection for all, (family: neighbor and enemy). Their gluttony turned into greed for what was good and then into a willingness to share it. Those who lusted after evil began to hate it, and then their hate for evil turned into love for what was best. They began to realize that it was "better" to hate evil then to lust after it but it was "best" not to hate it and focus on doing what was good (holy).

The crowd's condemnation turned into partial forgiveness and then into complete forgiveness. Their belief in no truth turned into individual truths and then into the universal truth. Their arrogance turned into partial humility and then into humbleness. Lack of faith in what was good turned into doubt in what was evil and then into complete trust in good. Terrified of what was good turned into fear of what was evil and then into the courage to face it. Their numbness turned into remorseful sadness and then into complete happiness. The fishers of men and women (one family) were catching fish; nets overflowed with fish that were worth their weight in GOD! They were being healed, and then set free to heal those around them in the crowd. We had watched as the dead were brought back to life! The bread had fed the fish, the fish had fed the healers, and all who had drunk the water of life were drunk with happiness, and so they were set free.

Turning Water into Wine

We saw those who were starving break bread and eat. We saw those who sacrificed their life for their ONE FAMILY because they loved everyone who was part of "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING." We saw those who had been thirsty drink the water of life (unconditional love and all its components). They were filled with such joy that it was as if the water had been turned into wine. We saw them tip the glass, drink, and have everlasting life (enduring, eternal, and undying happiness).

The Pitchfork

After the crowd had been healed, the healers got back in their boat. They were tired, but they still had some bread, strength, and the evening light. So, the healers went to another location and continued to fish. When the evening faded into the inevitable, the healers found themselves enveloped in darkness. When the family, neighbor, and enemy within other individuals were given unconditional love (mentally, emotionally, and physically), they were completely healed. When the healers fed the enemy from another fishing hole, those who had been healed slipped back into the darkness. The individuals had not yet learned to give unconditional love back to GOD. Out of the darkness it was said that the healers were healing the sinners with the help of the devil, but the healers continued to shine light. "Everyone is, was, and forever will be each others' brothers, sisters, mothers, and fathers." "Everyone forever will be part of "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING, GOD'S CHILDREN, FAMILY!" "O HEAR ME, GOD IS ONE!" "Love your family, neighbor, and enemy, for that is "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING (THE FAMILY OF ONE GOD)." The healers fed them with their three-pronged fork's (staff's), the universal truth.

Religious authorities that were eating from the tree of complete separation (no love) made and distributed drawings that mocked the healers and their words. Those who spoke of the three were given two horns (enemy and neighbor), and a tail was given for the third option (one family). The healer's staffs were turned into pitchforks, and the arrows that had once pointed towards the universal truth (light, dark, and dim ...) Turned into sharp points. The healers were portrayed as devils. Religious figures hoped that the pictures would frighten potential followers away from the healers' teachings. Those who still had eyes to see the light followed it out of the darkness as the healers went home for the night.

The Coin in the Fish's Mouth

Days turned into weeks and weeks turned into months as the healers continued to fish. The empire and the religious authorities believed they ruled over their citizens, and were distributing coins (which represented conditional love). They wanted the citizens to turn the healers over, and they hoped that the coins would persuade them to do so. The fish were choking on the coins. One fish asked a Healer, "How can I enter into heaven?" The Healer reached into the fish's mouth and pulled the coin out. The Healer said, "Do not accept what is evil, turn the other cheek, and give what is good to GOD. Then give away everything else that you have purchased with those coins, and come and follow me. By sacrificing your life for your one family, you are purchasing unconditional love for all, and you will have ever lasting life. Give unconditional love to your family, neighbor, and enemy, who are One Family, and GOD and Heaven will be Yours."

The fish was then told, "Go and do what you have already planned to do, and then come back and follow me." When the fish returned, he pretended to have purchased the new teachings of unconditional love but he held a bagful of coins behind his back. He was a guard of the old religion (conditional love, and no love).

The Last Supper and the Cup of Life

One evening after fishing, a Healer told the others that one of them was going to betray Him. The Healer went on to say that after He was betrayed, He would allow Himself to be sacrificed (Turn The Other Cheek—Unconditional Love). Most of the healers stumbled when they doubted the Healer's Words, but two of them knew it to be true. The Healer who was speaking was ready to be Harvested, and Bread had been made. One Loaf of Bread was broken into neighbor and enemy, divided amongst the other healers, and their "Last Supper" together began.

The spy ate his half first (enemy), the healers who were stumbling ate their half second (neighbors). The Healer who was going to allow Himself to be Sacrificed was the Bread of Life (One Family), and He Turned the Other Cheek and said, "Eat in Remembrance of Me."

He then poured the Water of Life that flowed through His Veins (Unconditional Love) into their cups. "I Forgive you who doubt Me and he who does not believe. I Am the Cup of Life, and those who drink My Blood will have Ever Lasting Life. Drink and remember Me. Love your family, neighbor, and enemy as I have loved you."

When individuals accepted this evolved truth (Unconditional Love) into their hearts, the Springs of Eternal Life (UNCONDITIONAL LOVE) welled up within them and overflowed into other cups. During the Last Supper, a Physical Cup, the Holy Grail, was not in the picture because the Sun was the Cup. Those who have ears let them hear.

The Trial of the Mind

After the Last Supper, the Healer asked everyone to stay awake with Him. Those who had doubted the Healer's words drifted off to sleep. The spy pretended to do the same, but he got up and left in the middle of the night. The Healer who could not sleep looked up at the Heavens and knew that His time was near, but He was not alone. There was no greater love than to Sacrifice His Life for His One Family, just as the CREATOR had done for all its seeds. There was nothing that the Sun was about to do that He did not see His HEAVENLY FATHER already doing.

The Healer gathered His courage as enemies who were led there by the one who had betrayed Him surrounded Him. He walked up to the spy, a child of GOD, and kissed him on his cheek (a display of Unconditional Love). The spy who was blind and deaf became filled with remorseful sadness, and so he had begun to see again. Those who were asleep woke up, were shocked, and drew their verbal swords of complete separation (no love). One of them verbally cut the ear off of the betrayer who had just begun to hear, and so the only Healer who was left reached down and picked it up. Surrounded by enemies the Healer turned and said, "Those who live by the sword will die by it," and he who had lost his ear had it healed when he heard the Healer's words. Those who were groggy began to scatter, and they disappeared into the shadows. But one of them had come back out of the darkness (neighbor-conditional love-partial separation), and he followed the Healer from a distance. He watched as the Healer was brought before the religious council (who had made the drawings that mocked the Healer and His followers). Out of the darkness the religious council threw stones at the Mind, but the stones crumbled and fell to the ground. He took ONE LOAF OF BREAD, ONE FAMILY, and broke it into neighbor and enemy, saying, "O Hear Me. GOD is ONE. Love your family, neighbor, and enemy for that is "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING (ONE GOD)." Love your family, neighbor, and enemy as I Love You. Everyone is, was, and forever will be each other's brothers, sisters, mothers, and fathers. IN THE BEGINNING we all came from ONE FAMILY, will remain ONE FAMILY, and will return to understanding as ONE FAMILY. Everyone is, was and will be part of "ONE GOD!" The religious leaders asked Him, "Are you claiming to be the Sun of GOD?" The Healer sighed and said, "I Am the Sun of GOD, and I forgive you who are deaf and blind and can't hear or see Me." The Healer was found guilty of mental and spiritual blasphemy.

The Rooster Crowed Three Times

He who had been watching from a distance ran until he was stopped by a seed who loved and believed in the teachings of Unconditional Love. The seed asked if he was one of those who taught it, and the one who had been running said no. Then he was approached by a seed who was afraid and doubted the teachings of Unconditional Love. This seed also asked if the one running away was one of those who taught these teachings, and again the healer said no. Then he was approached by a seed who hated and did not believe at all in the teachings of Unconditional Love and was asked if he was one of those who taught it. Again, the healer denied it. After eating all three of GOD'S seeds by wounding, killing, and then doing nothing, he was the rooster that crowed three times. The Heavenly Work, which had previously been done, was being undone.

The Trial of the Body

The Sun was handed over to the empire's head judge. The Healer was told that all He had to say was that He was not the Sun of GOD, and his body would be released. The Healer said to the judge, "You have no power over Me! I Am not of your world of perceived separation, but I Am from another World of No Separation, and the Universal Truth has power over you and all others." The empire's judge said, "What is this Truth? If you are the Sun of GOD and my truth has no power, then why don't you escape?" The Healer responded, "I chose not to escape. I have an army of healers within Me, and all I have to do is Speak the Universal Truth and your armies will begin to fall."

The empire's judge did not believe Him at all and told the Healer again, "Say that you are not the Sun of GOD." The Healer did not speak, and the judge became furious and called on his armies of complete separation (no love). The judge said to the Healer, "You are not the Sun of GOD, and I sentence your body to a blasphemous physical crucifixion." The Healer then called on his own armies of No Separation (Unconditional Love) by speaking His Own Words, "I Am the Sun of GOD, and I will give My Life Willingly, therefore your truth has no power over Me, and My Willing Sacrifice takes away your sin." The empire's judge and executioner was no longer furious and became frustrated with himself. His armies had just begun to fall within him, and his power to rule had been taken away for the first time. He pondered the Universal Truth as the Healer walked away Willingly to Face His Death.

The Sacrifice

Out of the darkness, stones were flung at the Healer's Mind as He Carried His Cross. The stones crumbled and fell to the ground. He Broke Bread and fed them. Love your ONE FAMILY was ONE LOAF OF BREAD, and He Broke it into "LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AND ENEMY, FOR GOD IS ONE." They threw stones at His Emotions. His Armies of Unconditional Love within Him came to His aid, and the stones could not penetrate. The Healer did not become worse, and then evil; instead, He Turned the Other Cheek ("I forgive you, for you know not what you do.")

They threw stones at the Body, but the Body had already been given freely, and so it could not be taken. A fallen healer who was denying that he was one of the disciples of Unconditional Love flung one stone. That stone was thrown the hardest; it hit the Healer's Body with force, and He fell to the ground. A seed of Unconditional Love ran to Him and gave Him the water of life. The Healer drank it and then turned to His fallen brother and said, "I Forgive You." An individual who was being crucified along with the Healer stopped. He sacrificed his body as another stone was thrown, and he helped the Healer to His Feet. The helpers had indeed come!

The Healer was hung from His Cross, which He had "Willingly Agreed to Bear." The concept of Turning the Other Cheek (Willing Sacrifice), when put into practice, took away all sin. There was no greater love than to sacrifice one's life willingly for everyone, who were part of "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING," and there was nothing that The Sun would do that He did not see GOD already doing. THE BREAD OF LIFE (ONE FAMILY) was broken into two (Neighbor and Enemy), and the Last Supper, with Everyone, began. The Healer's Neighbor was hanging from a cross to His Left, and His Enemy was hanging from a cross to His Right. The Healer's Arms were stretched out on His Cross and He was about to give His ONE FAMILY A HUG. His Neighbor asked if he would see HEAVEN, and the Healer said, "Yes, you surely will" (Unconditional Love Was Given). His Enemy said, "If you are the Sun of GOD, then why don't you climb down from your cross?" The Healer turned the other cheek ("I Forgive You; you know not what you say.")

The Healer looked out over the crowd, who was part of "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING," looked up, and asked, "Why Do YOU Forsake Me? I have done nothing wrong, but I still forgive YOU." He then Poured the Water of Life that flowed through His Veins (Unconditional Love) into their cups. "I forgive those who doubt Me and those who do not believe. I Am the Water of Life, and those who drink My Blood will have Everlasting Life. Drink and Remember Me." He said, "Love your family, neighbor, and enemy as I Have Loved You."

Suddenly out of the darkness, the words came, "He is the Sun of GOD. Listen, everyone. He does not condemn you, He shows No Fear, and Constantly Forgives like the Sun Gives Light." The Healer smiled as the crowd began to come to Life! The Healer was filled with JOY, looked up at HEAVEN, and said, "It has been Accomplished." He was the Sun that was Shining in the Darkness. The Sun had begun to flicker, and then It went out. The Death of the Sun was a Supernova; it was the Greatest Sacrifice, the Brightest Light, and the Last Supper provided food for everyone to Eat.

Rise of the Fallen Healer

All of the fallen healers gathered after the crucifixion, and on the first day there were only enemies. On the second day, all enemies were accepted as neighbors. On the third day, all neighbors were welcomed as ONE FAMILY. On the third day the Crucified Healer had risen from the dead within the hearts and minds of the other healers who did not believe, then doubted, and at last believed again.

When the other healers were brought back to life, they had awakened from their sleep. The Healers' eyes were like Suns, and they had just been refined by FIRE. Those who ate from the tree of complete separation had a log in their eye (no love for family, neighbor, or enemy); they were blind and could not see at all. The Healers had come to set Fire to the Earth. The Earth was full of dead logs; the Fire was Unconditional Love, and the Earth had, is, and was going to be Kindled.

One by one the Healers looked up at HEAVEN knew their time was near, and sacrificed their lives willingly. When faced with death, they did not give condemnation in return; they showed no fear and sacrificed their lives willingly just as the CREATOR had done for all its seeds. Their reward was great.

Those who ate from the tree of complete separation began to feel sick with what they had done, and their condemnation turned into remorseful sadness. The New Teachings were spreading, dead logs were being burned, and weeds were being cut down and thrown into the fire. Those who had eaten from the tree of complete separation began to eat from the tree of partial separation. Those who ate from the tree of partial separation began to eat from the tree of no separation. The dead were being brought back to life, the Earth was being kindled, the blind began to see, and individuals were entering into heaven, Heaven and HEAVEN.

A New Religion

When the empire's citizens ate from the tree of no separation, they had purchased the teachings of Unconditional Love and left their homes to share it. UNCONDITIONAL LOVE was THE GREATEST LOVE, but it felt like the worst love for those who were not yet ready to give up their own coins of separation. The teachings of Unconditional Love terrified the empire. After the Fires had been partially put out (The Sacrifice of The Healers), their terror turned into a frantic fear that the fires would return, and so a compromise had to be reached. The teachings of no love, conditional love, and unconditional love were joined. The new religious authorities preached unconditional love for the family, neighbor, and enemy within their believers while at the same time preaching conditional love and no love for their neighbors and enemies outside of them. The Sun Shines Light Every Day, and yet the Sun was given "Sun" day. On its day, or selective days, citizens left their homes and went to church to receive unconditional love for them.

The empire hoped that the minds of their citizens would be covered in the fog of their conciliation and purposeful head-scratching confinement. It was said that there could only be One Sun in the HEAVENS, and it Shined Light (Unconditional Love) conditionally on everyone. Individuals were told to stay home and not follow its example. Everyone who knew that those teachings were not the outside truth, sold the teachings of Unconditional Love and held a new bagful of coins. Those who abandoned the Sun's Teachings were accepted as stable citizens as the Sun warmed their cheeks, Unconditionally, with a Kiss. All the believers in the compromised religion fell within themselves immediately. The empire would soon follow, and both the old and new religion would continue to crumble into rubble of individual faiths and non-faiths. Everyone was completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING." What was given to the whole body outside of the empire, its church, and it citizens would be given back.

When the followers left their church, they held a sword in one hand and heaven in the other, and the believers thought they were paving the way for the Healer to return. The Healer did not return. Instead of Unconditional Love rising from the dead within the hearts and minds of the individuals, Suns went down within them and they felt the darkness. But the Sun would rise in the morning, and the day would present new learning experiences as GOD'S seeds unfolded in every possible direction and dimension, exploring the possibility of Unconditional Love. The crops (Healers) that had unfolded in every possible direction and dimension of Unconditional Love had been Harvested. The seeds that came from That Harvest had been planted, and the seeds needed time to Grow.

The Three Churches

Just as there were individuals on Earth, there were individual churches and individual languages. All individuals could be simplified into three churches: 1) The church of complete separation teachings (complete babel), 2) the church of partial separation teachings (different languages), and 3) the church of no separation teachings (the universal language).

All individuals belonged to one of the three churches depending on their own stage of growth. Every individual was their own book of books, own testament, and had their own language. Each book had a genesis, chapters in between, and a revelation.

1st There was an inevitable, exploratory outcome for all three churches. Those who belonged to the church of complete separation teachings (kill or be killed) would live by that sword, become surrounded by enemies, and would die by the "hellish" revelations that came as a result of holding that sword.

2nd Because separation from "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" was not the truth outside of everyone's perception, all would lose the war to defeat their enemy with their weapons of complete separation and their weapons of partial separation. The flaw in conditional love (give me what is good or else an eye-for-an-eye-and-tooth-for-a-tooth mentality) would be exposed. When only enemies surrounded people, no love would be given, conditional love would disappear, and no love would be given in return. Those who believed in conditional love would become the enemy they were trying to kill. During the larger war of separation, it would be every man, woman, and child for themselves. There would again be no family, no neighbors, only enemies.

3rd Unwilling to sacrifice for anyone will evolve into willingly sacrificing for some and then into willingly sacrificing for all; infinite fluctuation occurs within the boundaries of finite possibilities. Without sacrifice, there would be no life. There is no other way for a larger body or mind to form without the sacrifice of others; every seed will return to that understanding.

Each of the three churches learned from their book of books and had a revelation according to their own stage of growth. Outside of everyone's perception, there was only one church (No Separation Teachings—THE FAMILY OF ONE GOD) and every seed on Earth will be Harvested. No seed is Left Behind!

All Seeds Are Replanted

When every Galaxy, Universe, and All Else, within "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING", had unfolded in every possible direction and dimension, just as it had done within every individual and Solar System, there was ONE BODY, ONE MIND, AND ONE EMOTION.

THE LARGEST SUN, which was in the process of being put back together had at last reached the understandable end. At that point there was no one left to heal emotionally, there was no one left to teach mentally and there was no one who perceived there to be separation from THE WHOLE BODY. There were no more stars in Heaven for ALL THE HEAVENS WERE WITHIN. The moment "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" became ONE BEING was the moment when THE ONE BODY, ONE MIND, AND ONE EMOTION BECAME AN INDIVIDUAL AGAIN. "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING" WAS MENTALLY, PHYSICALLY, AND EMOTIONALLY FULL AND SO AT THAT POINT THE END BECAME THE BEGINNING. There was a SUPER NOVA, THE BRIGHTEST LIGHT and the seeds of UNCONDITIONAL LOVE began to be replanted.

UNCONDITIONAL LOVE HAD BEEN GIVEN IN THE BEGINNING, DURING, AND THE END. Everyone again began to unfold in every possible direction and dimension, filling in all space in the same way as it was before. All seeds would break free from the darkness and rise toward the Sun until they were ready to be HARVESTED; no seed would be LEFT BEHIND!

Within the category emotion there is highest level, the lowest, and everything in between. Constant change (evolving and devolving) can and will occur but only within the boundaries of finite possibilities. There is no love (which is not absolutely zero), degrees of conditional love, and there is unconditional love. All those possibilities have, are, and will be explored.

Genesis in an Hourglass

BEFORE THE BEGINNING, there were no twinkling stars in the Heavens, and the Earth had yet to be formed. SPACE was an EMPTY WOMB void of life. THE SPIRIT OF GOD hovered in the EMPTINESS OF SPACE. The SPIRIT OF GOD and the EMPTINESS OF SPACE were "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING." THERE WAS ONE GOD, ONE CREATOR, ONE FLESH. GOD took from HIS SPIRIT the seeds of life, and, in THE WOMB OF SPACE, the Heavens and Heavens took form.

The SPIRIT OF GOD was at hand before, during, and after THE WOMB OF SPACE gave birth to Creation and Creation. GOD fashioned the Heavens and Heavens as Male and Female with Suns and Black Holes, each according to their kind, and together they were One Flesh. The Heavens and Heavens were created in the image of ONE GOD. The Heavens were fruitful and multiplied; there was nothing shameful about it.

GOD saw that creation out of SELF-SACRIFICE was good. GOD was, is, and always will be OMNIPRESENT—ONE CREATOR, ONE CREATION, ONE FLESH. Without GOD's sacrifice, all life would cease to exist.

'GOD' is, ABSOLUTELY INIFINITE. 'GOD' is, ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. IN-BETWEEN THE BEGINNING and THE END, THE HANDS of TIME were in the process of coming together as one, One and ONE. THE BEGINNING and THE END: there is only 'one time, One Time and ONE TIME.'

THE ALPHA and THE OMEGA: 'ONE WORD' is, ETERNAL; 'GOD' is, ONE WORD. Time was, is, and always will be an illusion with an ALMIGHTY PURPOSE.

In the image of GOD, the Earth was created. There was east and west, north and south, day and night. There was evening and there was morning. The northern and southern hemispheres were two opposite halves of the same whole. GOD fashioned all things on Earth as male and female, each according to their kind, and together they were one flesh. Thus, the Earth and everything on it were created in the image of GOD.

Everything on Earth was fruitful and multiplied; there was nothing shameful about it. GOD WAS OMNIPRESENT: ONE GOD, ONE CREATOR, ONE CREATION, ONE EARTH, AND ONE FLESH. GOD saw that creation out of SELF-SACRIFICE was good.

In the image of GOD, the Garden of Eden was created: "all kinds of trees grew out of the ground. Their fruit was pleasing to look at and good to eat. The tree that gives life forever was in the middle of the garden. The tree that gives the ability to tell the difference between good and evil was also there."

GOD put Adam and Eve in the garden to work and take care of it. GOD said, "you can eat the fruit of any tree that is in the garden. But you must not eat the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. When you do, you can be sure that you will die."

Adam and Eve had acquired knowledge of GOD: work, love, happiness, and life. Adam and Eve had no knowledge of temperance. They had never been tempted.

The core of intemperance was internal temptation: idleness, lust, and envy. Idleness the death of work, lust the death of love: envy is the death of happiness. Idleness, lust, and envy deceptively seemed pleasing to the eye and good to eat. We did not understand the long-term consequences of idleness, lust, and envy. Adam and Eve's eyes had been opened, but the long-term consequences had yet to be realized.

Adam and Eve's fall from heaven and Heaven was immediate. It was a mental, emotional, and physical disconnect from GOD, and their absence was measurably noticed. Adam and Eve's eyes had opened, and they believed that GOD had deceived them. They sewed leaves together to camouflage their nakedness. They heard GOD walking in the garden and they hid among the bushes as GOD approached. GOD, knowing where they were, called out to Adam.

Fearfully attempting to conceal his core transgression Adam answered with deception, "I heard you in the garden, I was afraid. I was naked, so I hid." GOD said, "Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten the fruit of the tree I commanded you not to eat?" Adam shielded himself from responsibility by deflecting his transgression away from himself and down upon Eve. GOD then gave Eve a chance to confess. She too raised her shield and deflected responsibility away from herself and down upon external temptation. GOD knew what Adam and Eve were attempting to avoid, physical death. What is death? Culpability for their disobedience was theirs alone; their sin originated from within themselves.

Adam and Eve had acquired knowledge of intemperance: idleness, lust, envy, greed, shamelessness, fear, deception, blame, and denial. Repentance could not follow external blame. Unbeknownst to Adam and Eve, GOD was offering them the chance to atone and be made anew. They felt no remorse and hid from restoration.

GOD was aware Adam and Eve had no knowledge of atonement: shame, courage, truthfulness, culpability, and repentance. Like temperance, atonement was a lesson that could not be learned for them. GOD is all love, all knowing, one flesh. There is no greater love then willing sacrifice. GOD allowed Adam and Eve to fall and break away spiritually— 'physically, emotionally, and mentally.'

There are three types of shame: purity and no shame, impurity and shamelessness, and impurity and shame. Courage, truthfulness, culpability, and repentance follow impurity and shame. Adam and Eve had experienced purity and no shame. They had experienced impurity and shamelessness. They had yet to experience impurity and shame.

The Will of GOD was this: to put Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden to work and take care of it. The fruit from their labor was good: temperance. When their hands became idle they fell to intemperance. GOD created confession and forgiveness and there was more work to be done. Forgiveness, confession, and return to temperance made perfect their love not GOD's.

Although Adam and Eve felt no shame, GOD made cloths to protect them (the First Step in Atonement is shame). Adam and Eve had lost all faith in GOD and no longer wanted to eat from the Tree of Life. Physical death was necessary. Their journey would be perilous and death would find them; their lessons could be learned no other way. Eden (no separation), East of Eden (partial separation), and there would be the land of Nod (complete separation: the worship of idleness, gluttony, pride, and wrath.)

Sinners' sin against other sinners and yields are produced. Righteousness and unrighteousness sprouted in Adam and Eve when they were sinned against. (Instances of: "I have been sinned against in this way, I hate that sin, and I have no mercy for that sinner."). They still sinned in other ways. Righteousness and unrighteousness were the yields being produced in others. They had no mercy and they persecuted—it was unrighteous to do so. Forgiveness and mercy were the yields.

Righteousness and unrighteousness yielded holiness: forgive all, confess to all and return to all temperance. Adam and Eve's offspring learned that it was "better" to hate evil than to love it. Not to hate sinners. Lastly, it was "best" to no longer focus on hating evil, but be gone with it and focus on doing what was holy: forgive all, confess to all and return to all temperance.

GOD created an unfailing system in which it is not possible to live forever in sin. Forgiven all, confessed to all and the practice of all temperance shall always be the beacon of eternal life that guides all GOD's children back home; no forgiveness, no confession, no temperance, forgiving all, confessing all, returning to all temperance, forgiven all, confessed to all and returned to all temperance.

Every life existed within the boundaries of finite possibilities and every life was made eternal; etched in the pages of time for eternity. Adam and Eve would always be in heaven. Adam and Eve would always be outside of heaven. Adam and Eve would always be in the process of leaving heaven and returning to heaven. GOD's seeds needed time to grow. GOD watered the seeds daily, tending to the Garden. All GOD's prodigal children returned home. GOD is patient and GOD is kind. No seed is left behind.

The Garden of Eden: Heaven is a Full-Time Job; blessed are those who practice temperance! Blessed are those who believe in their own living testament, Living Testament and LIVING TESTAMENT.

The New Testament in an Hourglass

Who is, GOD? When we were children we instinctively knew that we were part of one family, a Larger Family and the FAMILY of GOD. GOD is: absolutely everything, Absolutely Everything and ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. GOD is: absolutely infinite, Absolutely Infinite and ABSOLUTELY INFINITE. There is no Greater FAMILY; there is no Greater LOVE; there is no Greater GOD. THE ALPHA and THE OMEGA: 'ONE WORD' is, ETERNAL; 'GOD' is, ONE WORD.

'GOD' is, ABSOLUTELY INIFINITE. 'GOD' is, ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING. IN-BETWEEN THE BEGINNING and THE END, THE HANDS of TIME were in the process of coming together as one, One and ONE. THE BEGINNING and THE END: there is only 'one time, One Time and ONE TIME.'

'Humanity is the expression of one human being's potential—One Category: Human (a beginning and an end). In-between the beginning and the end, there was nothing that humanity did to one another that humanity did not also do to oneself. Outside of perception, there was no separation. To forgive one human being was to forgive humanity—to condemn one human being was to condemn humanity—know thyself, others and ALL ELSE.'

In my left hand, original sin rippled out creating Hell on Earth: no forgiveness, no confession, and no temperance.

In my right hand, Forgiving All, Confessing to All and Returning to All Temperance rippled back: FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERANCE (ONE FAMILY HOME—ONE HEAVEN—ONE ALMIGHTY CLAP—ONE PRAYER ANSWERED).

Life lessons take a lifetime to learn. In the same way, when it comes to Humanity, the lessons take AGE'S.

For example,

An AGE of Temperance.

An AGE of Forgiveness.

An AGE of Confession.

An AGE of Return to Temperance.

In the meantime, we have seen a lot of Earthly temples but we have never seen one as beautiful as 'GOD'S CREATION.'

The TEMPLE of GOD: Head, (Temperance—No Sin). Right Hand, (Forgiveness for All—No Sin). Left Hand, (Confessional Baptism—No Sin). Heart, (Unconditional love). Eyes, (Like the Sun). Mouth, (The Spoken Word of GOD: I am, I Am and I AM). The Body, (without sin, Without Sin and WITHOUT SIN!) The Legs, (The Pillars of Truth). Foundation, (Solid Rock/the Way, the Truth and the Life).

The Staff of Unconditional Love is this: GOD/no GOD, FAITH/no faith, UNIVERSAL TRUTH/no universal truth. Every Child of GOD will RETURN HOME (FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERANCE)!

We can bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances we have against one another. Whether we turn to the right or to the left, our ears will hear a voice behind us, saying, "This is the way; walk in it."

To our right, we can forgive. To our left, we can confess. Both hands come together, we return to temperance. The shortest distance between three points? There is no distance!

Intemperance made us susceptible to sin. In a world of sinners, righteous sin made us blameful, arrogant, judgmental, and ruthless. Righteous sin (condemnation) and immoral sin (intemperance) were like spears sticking out of our soul and thorns around our head.

We were shown our righteous sins (Instances of: "I have been sinned against in this way, I hate that sinner, and I have no mercy for them!"). We were encouraged to forgive without the trespasser's confession or request for forgiveness.

We forgave those who had severely wronged us. We pulled those unrighteous spears from our soul and our wounds healed.

We worked our way up through our life, our soul forgiving all trespassers. Forgiveness of sin was for our benefit, not for those who had trespassed against us. Our forgiveness was healing us!

We were then shown our trespasses. We asked GOD for forgiveness but the thorns were not removed. We were allowed to experience the pain we had caused others, and we cried tears of remorse!

We were overcome with love and remorse and decided to take the leap of faith and confess. We opened the front door to our house (no confession and no temperance) and hesitated for a moment, tears running down our face as we gathered our courage.

Our sins weighed heavier on some of those we sinned against, affecting their lives more than they did others. When we were forgiven, others were healed. Remorse and confession healed us. It was necessary to be completely truthful when confessing our sins and we described them to the best of our ability. Does not the memory of a heavy burden weigh more than a lesser burden?

During and after our confessional baptism we felt an agony of remorse. This required faith to endure. Remorse was the process of sin leaving our soul and cleansing us. The spirit of truth testified to the validity of "Confessional Baptism." The weights of our burdens lifted and there was rejoicing on all sides! We were all being made anew! We tackled the hardest confessions first, and it was easier as we went along.

We listened to GOD by tapping the gold mine within us. We went where GOD told us to go—to our confessions. Only after our sins were unearthed and refined by fire (Confessional Baptism) were they worth their weight in GOLD—GOD. HEAVENLY CURRENCY was created and prayers, Prayers and PRAYERS were answered, Answered and ANSWERED! We were having fellowship with one another; we walked in the light and we loved the LIGHT!

Now the memory of a wrong did not vanish. The weights of our wrongs vanished. It was the sin that no longer had weight and the memory of salvation superseded it! Humbleness, mercy and guidance were the yield and our return to temperance, Temperance and TEMPERANCE was the answered prayer, Prayer and PRAYER.

During our 'confessional baptism', we were being made anew. Refreshing the soul, in this realm, was the key that unlocked the gates to the vault of peace, Peace and PEACE: forgiven all, Forgiven All and FORGIVEN ALL; confessed to all, Confessed to All and CONFESSED TO ALL; returned to all temperance, Returned to All Temperance and RETURNED to ALL TEMPERANCE."

1st Forgiveness for all, confessional baptism, and our return to temperance amended the environment around us.

2nd The environment had been primed and our armor had been tempered. We left our "home town" prepared to Forgive All Sin, Confess All Sin and Practice All Temperance. Against such things there was no commandment.

3rd We went into the desert for forty days and forty nights (Forgiving All, Confessing to All and Practicing All Temperance). The sins within others became as clear as day in the absence of all sin within us and we were tested. Those whom we loved offered us power and wealth and all that is sinful in return: stones to eat instead of bread, and poison to drink instead of water. Our refusal caused offense. Tables overturned within every temple and unhealthy offerings tumbled to the ground just as coins once did. Those whom we loved turned against us (no love). We fasted. In that desert we were alone for forty days and forty nights.

Only after forgiveness for all and confessional baptism did the "clean spirit" enter, and we were born, again (I am, I am who I am). We ate and we drank and we were merry (forgiven all and confessed to all). A New Year's Resolution (temperance) followed. One holy spirit at a time this dimly lit world Brightened. MERRY CHRISTMAS!

The New Testament: Heaven is a Full-Time Job; blessed are those that lift a finger! Blessed are those who believe in their own living testament, Living Testament and LIVING TESTAMANT.

Revelations in an Hourglass

Every life is a witness to his or her own existence. Every witness has a genesis, pages in-between, and a revelation. THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH (I AM, I AM WHO I AM) and The Spirit of Truth (I Am, I Am Who I Am) will testify with us (I am, I am who I am)!

There are seven unlit wicks and seven stars. There are seven seals. We can leave the judging to GOD whom had good judgment while we focus on forgiving others, confessing our sins and practicing temperance!

What is unlit becomes lit. When we unlock all seals (forgiven all, confessed to all and returned to all temperance) the wicks on our individual lampstands will shine: shine, shine, shine, shine, shine, shine and shine.

Blessed are those who wash their own robes, that they may have the right to the TREE OF LIFE (forgiveness for all, Forgiveness for All and FORGIVENESS FOR ALL) and may go through the GATES (confessional baptism, Confessional Baptism, and CONFESSIONAL BAPTISM) into the CITY (temperance, Temperance and TEMPERANCE). We are not slaves in heaven, Heaven or HEAVEN; we are willing servants of our most loving GOD.

These three laws we hold to be self-evident:

THE LAW OF THE SPIRIT OF LIFE IS THIS: FORGIVE ALL, CONFESS TO ALL, AND PRACTICE ALL TEMPERANCE—NO CONDEMNATION.

THE LAW OF SIN AND DEATH IS THIS: DO NOT FORGIVE ALL, DO NOT CONFESS TO ALL, AND DO NOT PRACTICE ALL TEMPERANCE—CONDEMNATION.

THE LAW OF SALVATION: FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERANCE.

THE THREE WOES: 1) WOE TO THOSE WHO DO NOT FORGIVE ALL, 2) WOE TO THOSE WHO DO NOT CONFESS TO ALL, AND 3) WOE TO THOSE WHO DO NOT RETURN TO ALL TEMPERANCE. UNRIGHTEOUS SIN AND IMMORAL SIN ARE NOT WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE. BLESSED ARE THOSE WHO DO NOT SEEK CONFIRMATION.

SO, IN EVERYTHING, WE DO UNTO OTHERS AS WE WOULD HAVE THEM DO UNTO US. ALL THAT SUMS UP THE LAW AND THE PROPHETS.

Who would crucify the right hand (forgiveness for all, Forgiveness for All and FORGIVENESS FOR ALL—no sin, No Sin and NO SIN)? Who would crucify the left hand (confessional baptism, Confessional Baptism and CONFESSIONAL BAPTISM—no sin, No Sin and NO SIN)?

Broad is the path that leads to destruction (no forgiveness, no confession and no temperance). Narrow is the path in which we will all travel (forgiving all, confessing all and returning to all temperance). Through the eye of a needle: forgiven all, confessed to all and returned to all temperance.

GOD'S GIFT TO US ALL: FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND THE PRACTICE OF ALL TEMPERANCE, no forgiveness, no confession, no temperance, forgiving all, confessing all, returning to all temperance, FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERACE (INTO THE EMBRACING ARMS OF UNCONDITIONAL LOVE).

When THE RIGHT HAND of GOD (NO SIN—forgiven all, Forgiven All and FORGIVEN ALL) and THE LEFT HAND of GOD (confessed to all, Confessed to All and CONFESSED TO ALL—NO SIN) come together there will be an ALMIGHTY CRACK! We will wake up! GOD'S PRAYER, (RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERANCE—NO SIN), will be answered, Answered and ANSWERED!

Thus, GOD WAS, IS AND FOREVER WILL BE OMNIPRESENT: GOD, CREATOR, CREATION, EARTH, HUMANITY, ONE FLESH.

Genesis, The New Testament and Revelations: A Full-Time job; blessed are those who practice temperance; blessed are those that lift a finger; blessed are those that overcome. This might not seem like good news but it is: Heaven is a Full-Time Job! Blessed are those who believe in their own living testament, Living Testament and LIVING TESTAMENT.

The Prayer Effect

Our Daily Working Prayer: GOD is ONE ("I AM, I AM WHO I AM"), who is Truthfully within Christ (I Am, I Am Who I Am) and truthfully within us (I am, I am who I am).

Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us: forgiveness. Lead us not into temptation: temperance. But deliver us from evil: by practicing confessional baptism. 'I am, I Am and I AM: one, One, ONE, holy spirit, Sun and GOD."

Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will be Done on Earth as it is in heaven, Heaven and HEAVEN: FORGIVEN ALL, CONFESSED TO ALL AND RETURNED TO ALL TEMPERACE.

Our "daily working prayer" is "The Only Daily Prayer" that "WORKED":

How many times did we forgive one another? Forgiveness healed us!

How many times did we confess to one another? Confession healed us!

How many times did we return to temperance? Temperance healed us!

When we closed our eyes, prayed, and did nothing to answer the prayers of those around us, then we did not realize the closing of our eyes made us blind. That was the least effective prayer. How could we expect prayers to be answered for us when we didn't answer the prayers of others? When we opened our eyes, we could see that it was best to be as a lantern and we let the Greatest Love (UNCONDITIONAL LOVE) shine through us. So, too, it was best to allow all lanterns to be lit or brightened. We constantly filled other cups with answered prayers. Our own cups were constantly overflowing, and our wick burned bright within us.

When we were from the world of conditional love we lived by its rules. When others hated us, we hated them. When others judged us, we judged them. When we cursed others, they cursed us. Likewise, when someone gave us something good, we wanted to give him or her something good in return. When we were shown mercy, how could we do less than show mercy in return? The world of conditional love was foreseeable. The question then was, what more were we doing then others?

In the world of Unconditional Love, we gave to everyone who begged of us and we gave to everyone who asked of us. When others asked us to walk a mile with them, we walked two miles. We listened and learned from others, and they listened and learned in return. If we judged them, they would judge us. If we did not sincerely listen, then they would not sincerely listen. The manner in which we gave to our neighbor was the manner in which we were given. In the world of conditional love the rule of law (forgive and be forgiven, and all else in the likeness of good in that world) was the narrow path that led out of judge and be judged, allowing us to escape it.

In the world of no love, there was no escape. When we showed neither fear nor condemnation, then that world was kindled, and a world of conditional love rose from the ashes. But more work was needed! Kill or be killed would turn into 'give me what is good or else an eye-for-an-eye-and-tooth-for-a-tooth'. Then, eventually, we saw the best of all worlds—Unconditional Love. With time, even the jagged rock became smooth as the WATER OF LIFE constantly flowed over it.

We loved those who loved us, those who didn't feel one way or the other and loved those who hated us. We sent out good prayers to those who sent out the same prayers. We gave to those who didn't, and gave to those who cursed us. We loved our family, neighbor, and enemy and heaven came—first to us, then to others and then to Earth.

When we gave our body good gifts, it gave us good health. When we gave our mind good gifts, then it gave us good thoughts. When we gave our emotions good gifts, then we were given happiness. When we gave our soul good gifts, we were likewise given life.

When we poisoned the Earth, then it poisoned us. When we poisoned our citizens, then the foundation our country rested upon shook, and our country crumbled to the ground. When we poisoned ourselves, then we surely died. When every man, woman, and child lived for themselves within a country, then greed had consumed that country. A country divided would fall. The same was true for the whole of civilization. That was how a country defeated another, is how others defeated us, and is how we allowed ourselves to be defeated.

We influenced the environment by offering sacrifices in some form or another, hoping that our prayers would be answered. Because everyone was completely connected to "ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING, a sacrificial prayer caused a chain reaction that rippled out in every direction." What was sacrificed was then given back, rippling through the environment until it found its sender. That was how a sacrificial prayer was made and answered.

Sacrificing the life of a favored animal and holding it up for the HEAVENS to take, while hoping that the environment rippled back rain, was not the best sacrificial prayer. Likewise, taking away the life of another human being to save one's own—or achieve one's primitive desires—was a murderous sacrificial prayer. Murder rippled out in every possible direction.

All that, rippled back through the environment. When we offered up murderous sacrifices and the like we had our murderous prayers answered by those around us. That type of environmental altering—the dark arts—advanced over time (0-100%) with study and practice. Such offerings did not come without internal and external cost. Short-term "perceptual" gain resulted in mid-term and long-term loss.

When we worshiped idleness, we forfeited the embrace of our own work: when we sought to embrace lust, we sacrificed the embrace of our own love, when we sought to embrace envy we sacrificed the embrace of our own happiness, when we sought to embrace greed we sacrificed the embrace of our own abstinence, when we sought to embrace pride we sacrificed the embrace of our own humbleness, when we sought to embrace blame and condemnation we sacrificed the embrace of our own confession and forgiveness.

Internal work manifested as external work. When no love was expressed mentally, emotionally, or physically, it rippled out, and an environment of complete separation (no love) was created. The environment that we created for others was the humbling environment we created for ourselves: no love rippled back.

So, too, Unconditional Love rippled back through the environment. When Unconditional Love was expressed mentally, emotionally, or physically it rippled out, and an environment of complete connectedness was created. The environment that we created for others was the environment created for us. We were self-empowered to create the environment in which we wished to live and learn.

Good offerings rippled through the environment, filling other cups with answered prayers. When we lost faith after making a good offering, we walked away. How could we witness prayers being answered all around us? And how could a prayer be even further answered when we are not able to recognize it upon its return? When we kept our FAITH after making a good offering, we walked away believing. FAITH was a constant. We didn't demand, beg, or expect anything in return. We did what was right because it was right to do so.

During our 'confessional baptism', we were being made anew. Refreshing the soul, in this realm, was the key that unlocked the gates to the vault of "peace within us, within Others and within GOD: forgiven all, Forgiven All and FORGIVEN ALL; confessed to all, Confessed to All and CONFESSED TO ALL; returned to all temperance, Returned to All Temperance AND RETURNED to ALL TEMPERACE."

Every unique emotion, thought, and external action had a unique frequency. There were as many unique frequencies in existence as there were unique emotions. Emotions, thoughts, and external actions were forms of energy. When energy was expressed, energy traveled around the world. While traveling, the energy was amplified, like a game of tetherball without an opposing side. Participants took turns hitting the ball in one direction, causing acceleration. The tetherball built up energy as it traveled around and back to us all (the senders and the receivers of the frequency). Upon receiving the enhanced energy, it could be sent back out repeatedly until the maximum amount of energy was reached. The degree in which energy was given or taken from us was the degree in which rest was needed.

Enlightened energy returned to us as either primitive energy or enlightened energy! Both primitive energy and enlightened energy were expressed. We recognized primitive energy upon receiving it. The primitive energy was converted before being relayed. Primitive energy was removed from the world in the following way. Like a game of tetherball with an opposing side a battle between the enlightened and the primitive, peace and war, life, and death went on. Primitive energy and enlightening energy hit the ball back and forth.

When more primitive energy was sent out into the world, the consequence was war, ruthlessness, sadness and death. On the other hand, when more enlightened energy was sent out into the world, the reward was peace, mercy, happiness and life.

Enlightened frequencies cured depression and diseases; they also ended wars. Primitive frequencies caused depression and diseases; they also started wars. Emotions, thoughts and external actions were forms of energy, and they affected the world. When we were faced with primitive energy, we showed no fear. We turned the other cheek to what was primitive and gave what was good instead.

We all participated in this game of energy transference. When we were unaware of our energy transference we sent energy into the world based upon the form of energy we received: unaware receivers and senders.

When we sent out good sacrificial prayers then our country, one family, was strengthened. Good sacrificial prayers sucked the poisonous division of individual greed out of a country and united what was divided, making it strong once again. What destroyed the emotions, mind, and body of an individual destroyed a country, countries, and the world in the same way. What healed the emotions, mind and body of an individual rebuilt a country, countries, and the world as well.

On Earth, we were bombarded with various forms of primitive energy. While some lost heart, others prevailed, and those who had lost heart were brought back to life.

Leftover Food

Throughout history, self-proclaimed GOD's emerged, expanded, enslaved and ruled over others. Those who perceived themselves to have conquered others wrote down our history and that perceived history was built upon.

Parents sometimes fed their children: clothed them, showed them the world, the animals in it, and taught them the rules of existence based on their perception of reality (no love, conditional love or unconditional love). This magnetic bond between parents and children sometimes increased the length of survival.

Parents sometimes behaved as if they were GOD even if they didn't claim to be GOD. There sometimes came a point when the bigger picture was revealed, "My parents are not GOD." At that point some parents relayed to their children who their GOD was or who their GODs were. Some parents relayed no GOD, some parents said nothing, and some parents unnaturally continued to deceive their children—claiming to be GOD (the mother and father of all lies). And some children claimed that their parent or parents were the one and only GODs or GOD. All that is a certainty!

_Everlasting Peace:_ forgiven all, confessed to all and returned to all temperance. Substance is our name and our name is substance, Substance and SUBSTANCE. I am certain that everyone has used and will continue to use their uniquely acquired experiences to reveal the mysteries of his or her existence and nonexistence. Individual faiths and non-faiths have woven their believers and non-believers into who they are today. Non-faith and faith belong to one category, and no one on Earth believes in the same truth word for word, thought for thought, and experience for experience. There are as many individual faiths on Earth as there are individuals. Who is the individual faith that does not have a non-faith? There is nothing that we experience in life that "EXISTENCE AND NONEXISTENCE" does not allow. We are living testaments. To deny one's own testament is to deny one's own existence. Blessed is the reader who continues to believe in his or her own existence. O hear me, your existence is your individual authority. THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH is resonating throughout our entire being—I am, I am who I am—I Am, I Am Who I Am—I AM, I AM WHO I AM. We are all being made anew ('I am, I Am and I AM')—THE PERFECT WORD OF GOD.

