 
The Letter
Introduction

I was sitting in the home of John in the Roman province of Pontus, along the Euxine Sea when the letter came. We had gathered around the table for a time of prayer and fellowship. There was John, James, Mark, and myself. I am Timothy. These men were all learned men, men with a great knowledge of the Scriptures and a great knowledge of our Savior. All were very well educated. I probably had the least education of all us. There was a knock at the door and a young courier entered and said that he brought a letter from Peter and handed it to John. John started to open the letter and then stopped and looked at all of us. He said, "I want each of your inputs into this which Peter has written to us for I sense that its meaning will be far more reaching than we could ever imagine. He then stated that he would read the letter slowly and then allow us to discuss it around the table. With this we had a word of prayer. John then opened the letter and we began to read.

Chapter One

1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia.

No sooner had John finished reading this sentence when James said, "The rock has written this letter to us." We laughed for we also knew Peter would laugh for we all knew that our rock was the Lord Jesus. James then said, "Peter was one of the first apostles, one of the first messengers but now we have all become messengers for our Savior. We are all messengers and strangers. Our native country is Heaven and we are but sojourners here on earth." With that Mark added, "Yes, we are foreigners scattered among the Gentiles." John continued.

1:2 Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied. John stopped reading and said, "I think I will ask each of you in turn what you think Peter is saying to us. Of course if any disagree then feel free to speak up. We had been so engrossed in our discussion that we had forgotten about the courier who was still standing there. John asked him if he were a believer and he nodded his head yes. John then asked his named and he said it was Samuel. John invited him to sit at the table with us then gave him a drink and the young man sat down with us. John turned to James and said why don't you be the first to comment on Peter' first sentence. James began with the word elect saying, "My dear brothers we are the elect of God, we are the chosen of Him to obtain salvation through Jesus Christ our Lord. We were chosen by Gods thought or foreknowledge. Chosen by pre-arrangement." James stopped and thought for a moment and said, "Yes, my brothers, we are chosen by the Father through the Son and set apart by the Spirit. The purifying Spirit of God has set us apart and consecrated us to be chosen vessels to our Father. How? By submitting to Him by an act of our will and by the precious blood of our Savior. Jesus has sprinkled His blood upon us just as the priest did upon the altar. It is by His grace and His merciful kindness that this peace is given to us. The more we see of it the more it increases in us." We all sat there as if stunned. We were in awe and wonder at what James had said as we thought about what God, through the Son by His Spirit had done for us. I then asked James, "When you say foreknowledge what do you mean? Do you mean we had no choice in this matter of salvation?" James thought for a moment and said, "No, I do not think that is the case. How could God be God if He did not know who was going to be saved. Yet, He gave us a free will to choose Him. I think by choosing we become foreordained to be like our Savior and become part of His pre-arranged plan. We must become like Him for if we do not how could we who are so unholy entered into such a Holy place as Heaven." James stopped there and all was quiet. Mark then said, "I think that many may be confused by these words some will think one way and others will think another way." Then John made a statement to which we all said Amen, "They will only become confused if they take their eyes off the one in whom there is no confusion. He did not save us to argue over words. He saved us to have fellowship with Him so that others might hear and see the good news of His saving grace." I quietly added, "Yes, to hear with their ears and see with their eyes what a difference He has made in our lives." We all smiled but I sensed that for some reason Samuel's smile was not as genuine as the rest of us but I made no comment. John then said let us continue and began to read the next sentence.

1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.

John turned to Mark and said, "your turn Mark, what do you think of these words that Peter has written unto us." Mark sat there for a moment and then began with these words, "Praise, Praise, and Praise to God the Father" Mark said," all praise is due Him because He is the Father. By Father I mean He shares with Jesus in His divine nature. He has united Himself with our Lord Jesus in the closest bond of love and together they have appointed themselves through Jesus to carry out the plan of divine salvation. It is because of His abundant mercy shown in Jesus that He has allowed us to be born again from above. We can now have a life worthy of the name of God. We have a joyful expectation because Jesus was raised from the dead." I then asked Mark what he meant by that term born again. Mark said, "It is to have a change of mind, will and spirit so that we will now live a life conformed to the will of God." I looked around the table at my fellow believers and remembered how each of us had a sordid past and now we wanted to live in holiness to honor our Savior. Although I did not know Samuel I hoped that this was also true of him. John looked around and said any questions or comments. No one said anything. He then read.

1:4.To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled and that fades not away, reserved in heaven for you,"

He then looked at me and said, "Timothy tell us what you think." I began to speak the following, "I said," I think I will look at these words one at a time. Here is what inheritance means to me. It is a share that I will have in eternity. It is a share in Jesus's eternal blessedness, it is also what we will share in when He returns to earth." At this everyone said, "Amen." This encouraged me to say more. I said, "The word incorruptible means that my inheritance can never fade away as things here on earth do." Again the Amen. I continued, "Free from anything that is defiled or deformed in any way. It is perfect. It is forever." I was ready to shout Hallelujah by this time. I looked at everyone and said, "there is an eternal blessing which can never fade away, that can never become corrupt, that is just sitting there waiting for each and every one of us in Heaven because of what Jesus has done for us. Glory to God." We all began to praise the Lord and thank Jesus for what He had done. It all stopped when Samuel got up. We turned and looked at him and he said, "I must be going now but I will be back." When he said this a chill went down my spine. I wondered what he meant when he said I will be back and who he would be back with." John said that we were sorry that he had to leave so soon and then went back to reading Peter's words.

1:5 Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.

John then said, "I guess it is my turn. Peter tells us that we are kept. That word kept says something special to me. For I think that Peter means we are guarded and watched by our Father as His special people. We are preserved by His power because we are going to inherit Heaven." John paused and then said, "How are we kept? We are kept by faith. We believe that God exists and this faith believes that Jesus is the author of our salvation. This faith will be completely revealed to us when we go to meet Him face to face. Then it will be revealed to the world when we come back with Him." At this Mark jumped up and did a little dance saying, "I am going to meet Him. He is going to greet me." We all had a good laugh and did some praising ourselves as we thought about seeing Jesus. John calmed us all down and said, "Let's get back to Peter's letter."

1:6 -7.Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations: That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:

John continued talking about what Peter had written with these words, "Brothers we need to rejoice and rejoice exceeding. We must always keep in mind that what we go through down here is like a season of winter compared with the summer of eternity. I know that we have sorrow and temptations here." I stopped John and asked him, "What do you think temptations is?" He sat for a moment and then said something I will always remember, "I think it is when circumstances happen to us and if we dwell upon them they will cause us to lapse from faith in our Father or cause us to lapse in holiness." James then added, "I think also think that if we are attacked mentally by Satan or just by our own flesh and dwell on unholy thoughts then the same thing will happen to us. We will see our faith and holiness leaking away." I then asked, "How can we stop this lapse in faith and holiness." John smiled and said, "I think Peter is giving us the answer in his next sentence. This life we live down here is a trial, a test, a proving ground for our Lord and His power. This proving ground that we are in is more precious than gold to our Savior. When we praise Him though the fires burn round us it only proves that His sacrifice was worthy of the price that was paid for us who were bought by His blood. It adds to His glory. It adds to His Kingly majesty. The majesty that belongs to Him as the Supreme Ruler. When He appears with us and we are then like Him it will prove His absolute perfection." We all just sat there stunned. We all were thinking of how many times we had failed to give Him praise and complained when things were not going our way. Well, we were going to be given another chance to prove our faith because at that moment a young lad came bursting through the door and said the soldiers are coming for you. John grabbed up Peter's letter and took off out the door with me following close behind. As we turned the corner I caught a glimpse of Samuel leading the soldiers. I watched in disbelief as they caught Mark and threw him to ground and began to beat on him. I heard Samuel scream at him. "We will have none of your Jesus around here. Do you hear me? None of your Jesus around here. I did not see where James went to that night or if he escaped. I pray that he did. I ran into the young lad who had warned us a few years later and he told me that he had hid in a hay wagon but he could see what happened. He told me that they kept beating Mark and he kept shouting, "More precious than gold, more precious than gold." The soldiers left him lying in the street and when they were gone he got out of the wagon and went over to Mark who was barely breathing. He leaned down close and Mark with a smile on his face said, "More precious than gold" and then he died.

I followed John down the Euxine Sea where we got under one of the fishing boats until we thought it was safe to come out. Dawn was beginning to break scattering the horrible darkness of the previous night. I think that John and I were both in a state of shock. How many deceivers like Samuel were coming into the world looking to do away with the true gospel of God? Their darkness served to make John and I more determined to shed Gods light. John turned to me and said, "Timothy, Peter wrote that he wanted those in Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia to be able to hear what the Lord had given him and I am determined to make that happen. I am going to go to those places with this letter and leave a copy with our brothers and sisters in Christ. He then looked into my eyes and said, "Will you join me?" I knew that this could mean beatings, imprisonments, persecution or even death for both of us. Yet when he spoke it was if the Lord was asking me, "Will you join me?" I had a choice as we all do. I could chose to go back and still be a believer hiding it among the crowd, worshiping in the dark, crouching in the silence or I could join Him. I think that is a choice we all have to make. His gracious gift of salvation is free but joining Him is going to cost you something. What would you do? I stood there for a moment looking at John and then with him I turned my face towards Galatia. As the sun rose two ragged men set off with a mission in mind and that was to take Peter's words to our brothers and sisters in those provinces.

We took off walking, and then began praying and soon we were again praising our Savior. The sun was up the weather was nice and we knew that our Savior reigned in heaven. We traveled all day only stopping once at a market along the way and buying supplies for this part of our journey. I had little money but John told me not to worry for he had recently come into a small inheritance and would be able to supply all we needed for our journey. As dusk settle we found a hut and the owner said that we could sleep in his barn as his wife and children were sick and he did not want them to spread their sickness to us. As we settled down John brought out Peter's letter and said, "Shall we continue where we left off?" I nodded my head in agreement.

1:8-9. Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory:Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.

John said Timothy, "Peter now writes to us the following. Whom having not seen ye love. Timothy, Peter saw Jesus but neither one of us every met Him in the flesh and yet we have met Him. We have met Him in our spirits for He now resides there." I said to John, "How do you know you love someone that you have never seen in person." We were both silent for a few minutes and then John said, "Though we have never seen Him in person as Peter did I think we still love Him. When I came to believe in Jesus I was not looking for Him as a matter of fact I was doing anything but that. I was living a life filled with sin and immorality. One night as I was leaving a tavern half-drunk. I stumbled into a young man and knocked him down. In my drunkenness I began to blame him for being in my way. Cursing and swearing at him. When he got up I even began to threaten and push him. I heard him say something to me but could not make out what he saying. In a snarling voice I said, "What did you say to me?" He spoke up and said, "God said to tell you that He loves you." I was so dumbfounded that I just stood there staring at him. He then began to tell me of the love of the Savior and there on that dark street, in a half drunken stupor, Jesus found me. I love Him because He loved me first." We both sat there thanking Jesus that he came searching for us. My story though different in circumstances was the same. Jesus came looking for me. Then a thought came to me and I said to John, "I think I know how you can be sure that you love someone you have never seen. Your actions show it. Jesus stepped out of heaven and died a horrible death on a cross for us. We whom He had never seen or met. His actions proved His love. Do you remember Peter's words to us in his letter? He said to the strangers scattered abroad in Pontus, Galatia, and the other provinces. We are taking this letter to them to who we have never meet or seen. We are taking his letter to these strangers. John, we are proving our love by our actions. We are taking the word that God has given Peter and sharing it with our brothers and sisters in Christ." John got a big smile on his face and said, "Yes, Yes, you are right and because of that even though we have not seen Him we are persuaded by His Spirit that lives in us. Because of that we do rejoice, we do glorify His wonderful name. Even now Timothy we are receiving the salvation of our souls. Right here in this barn, in this pile of hay on this night we are partaking of the salvation of our souls. We often think that we are proving our love but it is also Him proving His love in us at the same time." We both broke into some loud praises shouting, "Glory to God, Glory to Jesus."

All of a sudden we heard a voice that said, "What is going on in there? Do I hear someone praising my God and Savior?" We both turned and there was the farmer standing behind with a huge smile on his face. He then began to tell us that he was also a believer and we all began to rejoice to together. He had some warm bread and juice in his hand and sat down and began to share it with us. We explained what had happened to us and where we were going. He asked if he could hear of what Peter had written and John began to read the letter to him.

I will only pick up where we had left off so as not to bore you. Here is what John read to all of us next.

1:10-12. Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow. Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven; which things the angels desire to look into.

John stopped and said, "What a wonderful time we live in. Those great men of old like Isaiah, Jeremiah and others spoke about the one who they knew was to come. They spoke of the grace, the merciful kindness of God who exerts His Holy influence upon our hearts and turns us to Jesus. They did not know when this grace was going to appear but they were searching diligently for it." Just then the owner's dog came sniffing at John's ear sticking his nose right up against it. We all had a good laugh as the farmer whose name we had learned was Andrew said, "Old Gracie is sure doing some diligent sniffing." John looked at us both and said, "Old Gracie is doing just what the prophets did. They went sniffing for Jesus. They knew that His grace was coming just as you probably knew if we sat here long enough that your Gracie would come sniffing." Just then Gracie began to sniff around John's satchel. John got up and went over and pulled out a piece of dried fish, gave it to Gracie and she took off running with as if she had just been handed a crown of jewels. I said to Andrew and John, "I think Gracie is like those prophets of old she came sniffing and they did too. They did not know when Christ was coming but God rewarded them by showing them that Jesus was coming. Now we must take that which God has revealed to us and live as He would want us to live" John said, "Timothy that leads right into Peter's next sentence. Let me read it to you."

1:13-14. Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ; As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance:

John stopped and said, "Andrew join in our conversation and tell me what you think Peter is saying to us in these sentences that I just read." Andrew sat there for a moment and then told us, "I think that Peter is saying now that you have this grace revealed to you. Now that Jesus has come you should not only believe but began to live a new way. You should be calm and collected in spirit. You should be temperate in the things that you do. You should be mediating on the words of God. Now that Jesus has come and given us His Spirit we should live in submission and compliance to that Spirit. We are no longer blind to divine things for now we are a partaker of them." Then a big smile came over Andrew's face and he said to John, "I think that letter you are reading to me will have a lot of significance for everyone in the future. If you do not mind I am going to get parchment and ink and copy it down so that I may share Peter's words with others. "John and I both gave a loud Amen to Andrew's words. Andrew got up and went into the house and was back shortly but not by himself. His wife Amy had come back with him. After introductions were made Amy said that Andrew had told her what was going on and sick or not she had to hear more about her Savior. We all had a word of prayer for Amy's sickness and then John read the following.

1:15. But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.

John looked at me and said, "Timothy what does holiness mean to you? I had heard another Christian named Paul speak of holiness once and so I began to talk about what I had learned from him since I felt the same way as he did about the subject." I then told John and the others, "The first thing that holiness means to me is uniqueness. That uniqueness that is found in our God. There is no other like Him and because that is so there should be no others like us. We should be set apart as He is set apart." Amy spoke up and said, "Do you mean we should not associate with unbelievers." No was my response to Amy. "What I mean is that our bodies have the living God dwelling within them and because of that we are a special people and should honor our Savior by acting like special people. Our bodies should be treated like Temples and not filled with bad habits. Holiness also means belonging to God and depending on Him. Because we have now become dependent upon Him we should live in obedience to Him." I stopped and then remembered one more thing that Paul had said, "We are to be lights to the world pointing them to our Savior." Andrew then said, "Jehovah Mekoddishkem." We all turned and looked at him and in unison said, "What?" Andrew smiled and said, "Jehovah Mekoddishkem which means, The Lord who sanctifies you. The God who is Holy and set apart from all wants you to be Holy and set apart in your holiness from all. Jehovah Mekoddishkem" John looked and Andrew and a big smile came over his face when he said, "I could not have said it any better myself."

Amy said, "Okay my great religious men could we get back to the letter before this poor women's babies wake up." We all laughed and John began to read.

1:17-20. And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear: Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot: Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you,

John stopped reading and said, "Amy what do you think Peter is telling us in these sentences. Amy said, "Sojourning, that word sojourning means that we are dwelling in a strange land. This earth is not our real home now that we have met the Savior. Heaven is our real home and because of that we should live our lives here with reverence for the one who will take us to our real home. I am just a mother of small children and the wife of a farmer but my God looks at me as He looks at people in great authority. He does not respect them or honor them any more than He will me if I live my life for Him. He is truly our God for He does not have to give place to any man and because of that He makes me as important as the greatest king on this earth." Amy began to choke up with tears as she said these things. She stopped for a moment and collected herself and then went on to say, "I, little insignificant Amy have been bought and paid for by something and someone that this world can never come close to. I am worth more than rubies, I am more precious than gold. I have been purchased by the blood that flowed down from my Savior's brow. The blood that ran down His cheek and streamed across His chest. The blood that made its way down across His waist and onto His legs and went seeking down His thigh. It then went searching across His knee. Pursuing ever downward until it fell off of His ankles and feet to the earth and to the dust of which I am made. Its journey began in eternity in ages past when Jesus said here am I send me. Long before this world of which I am a sojourner. He with His precious blood began to look for me. He has now become visible for the whole world to see. That is what those words mean to me." We sat there in silence with tears streaming down our cheeks.

John finally cleared his throat and quietly said, "Thank you Amy, Thank you Jesus." Andrew then said, "We probably should continue for it will not be long before daybreak and I have chores that I must attend to and Amy has the little ones that she must see to." With this John began to read some more of Peter's letter,

1:21. Who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.

After John read this sentence he said, "It is by Jesus that I do believe. I am persuaded that God has raised Him from the dead. He recalled Him to life. I do not think that we spend much time on that fact for if we did we would continually be amazed. All around us things are dying and decaying all the time. We can see it in the flowers that wilt, the animals that we sometimes find decomposing on the ground. If we have not seen someone in a long time we noticed this death in their faces and bodies. God recalled this decaying process back to life. Glory to God, the defeat of death is over. God raised Jesus up from the dead. The world had thought that they had seen the last of Him. He was gone, in the grave, soon to be forgotten. Instead of that He was raised and given the Kingly majesty that was due Him. He did this for us so that we would know that God is the creator of all things, the ruler of all that is and the provider of eternal salvation through Jesus. He did this amazing wonderful thing so that we might have a joyful and confident expectation of eternal salvation." John stopped and we all said, "Glory to God and to the Lord Jesus Christ."

At this we heard a baby cry and a cow moo at the same time. Amy jumped up and went to the house but was back in a minute and said that little Adam had gone back to sleep. She then asked John to continue and he did with the following.

1:22. Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently.

I spoke up and said, "It is because we believe our souls have become clean. We have become clean and pure in His sight because we have believed the requirements that it takes to become a Christian. We have believed through His Spirit and opposed the corrupt opinions and precepts among the false teachers. The proof is we are sitting here having just met today fellowshipping in sincere love for one another. We have fervently stretched out our born again hands to one another in love"

Andrew took hold of my hand and said, "My dear brother in Christ that pretty well sums up what Peter said and what we all feel in our hearts as we set here." He then asked John to continue.

1:23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which lives and abides for ever

John looked at Andrew for we all could tell that he was bursting to speak and speak he did, "Glory to God, Glory to God. We are born anew, we have a changed mind because of a changed spirit. We want to live a life that is now conformed to the will of our Father. This changed spirit or born again spirit which was once dying and perishing has been implanted with a seed that cannot perish because it comes from the word of our God. The word or seed which has life in itself and exerts that life on our soul. The seed that can never fade away or grow old for it renews itself every day in our hearts. Amen, Amen and Amen!"

Amy grabbed Andrew's hand and put her finger to her lips with a smile and said, "You are going to Amen the baby awake and if you do you will be saying your Amen's to a dirty diaper." We all laughed and John continued,

1:24-25. For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withered, and the flower thereof fall's away: But the word of the Lord endures forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you.

The sun was breaking over the horizon and we would soon have to be on our way. We also knew that the children would be waking up and that Andrew and Amy's busy day would soon start. Andrew ask that we discuss these last few verses and then he would read the rest of the letter while Amy fixed us some breakfast. Then he would tell her about the rest of it tonight after they had put the children to bed. John said to Andrew why don't you finish us up and tell us what these words mean to you. Andrew said that he thought that Peter was just comparing our lives with the word of God. He said that he thought that in years to come men who were just flesh would criticize and condemn God's word saying that Adam and Eve were not real people. Or perhaps that Noah really did not build and ark. Or that God did not open the Red Sea for His children. Andrew then chuckled and said but those men just like we will soon be gone but Gods word would still be here. We all said Amen to that. Then Amy chimed in and said and the good news of Jesus will remain forever. Another loud chorus of Amen's but a little too loud for a cry was heard from the house, a bark was heard from Gracie and a crow was heard from a rooster. We all got up and went into the house. Amy graciously fixed John and me a nice breakfast while somehow still attending to her children. Andrew went off and finished reading the letter. After eating we all gathered for a word of thanksgiving and prayer. Then John and I set off with our letter.

We had our sights set on Galatia. We had not gone but a couple of miles when a Christian named Michael who was a friend of John's approached us from the direction of Galatia. We explained to him what had happened in Pontus. Michael asked to see the letter. He looked at it for perhaps five minutes and then said it is authentic. John asked what do you mean authentic? Michael then explained. He said that a young man named Samuel who was actually the grandson of the high priest was pretending to be a Christian and going around the different provinces with a band of other Jews and Roman soldiers trying to round up Christians and put them in prison. Peter had been caught and had written this letter to other believer's. He had actually given it to a man named Aaron to deliver. Samuel had gained Aaron's trust and when Aaron had showed him the letter he had Aaron arrested and put in prison for heresy. He then decided to bring the letter himself with plans to catch all of us. Michael then said, "Praise the Lord for I see that it has backfired on him." He then pointed to a small smudge on the back of the letter. He said that Peter had told others that if the letter was authentic then it would have this smudge in the shape of a cross on it. We looked and sure enough the smudge in the shape of a cross was there. We then realized that Samuel had intended to imprison us and then take the letter by himself to different provinces using it to entrap our fellow believers. We had a time of rejoicing with Michael and then a time of prayer to our Savior. Michael's last words to us were a warning for Samuel was combing the country side in search of John and I. We took great precautions in our journey to Galatia traveling mostly by night. Once we thought we caught a glimpse of Samuel traveling on the road with a band of Jewish men and some Roman soldiers. However we were not sure because we were hiding in the bushes as they passed by. We did praise the Lord however because they were heading away from Galatia instead of heading towards it. After several days we arrived in Galatia where John took us to a house where a fellow Christian named Naomi resided. After resting for the night and having a good breakfast the next morning we told her of Peter's letter and our plans to read it to her and other Christians in the area. She took the letter and read it and then copied it down. She said by evening she would gather some fellow Christians together and we could read and discuss the letter together. We spent the rest of the day resting and waiting for evening. Naomi came for us about six o'clock and took us to a good sized room where there were about fifteen other Christians gathered. After introductions and a good time of fellowship we gathered round in a circle and had a time of prayer. We then got Peter's letter out and began to follow the same format as before. We would read and then let others expound on what he had written.
Chapter 2

John then began to read. I will not tell you the discussion of the first page again but pick up on page two of Peter's letter. Here is what John read.

2:1-3. "Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speaking's. As newborn babies desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. If so be that ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious."

Everyone seemed a little shy to start so I spoke up and said, "This is what Peter is saying to my heart. First, He wants us to take the words laying aside and think of them in connection with the other words he wrote. He wants us to lay aside malice which is ill will or a desire to injure others." A young woman in the group spoke up and said I think that malice is also being not ashamed to break laws. She received several Amen's on that thought. I then continued, "I think that by using the word guile that Peter meant not to try to deceive others by saying one thing when you actually mean something else. In other words do not be crafty in your dealings with others. Be honest with them as you would have them to be with you. The word hypocrite means a pretending to be something that you are not." I stopped for a moment and John said, "Or perhaps being one thing with certain people and being something else with others." A young man spoke up and said I think that perhaps we all have been hypocrites at one time or another." All agreed with this. I said, "Yes, we have been but I think that Peter was saying do not make this your lifestyle. If the Spirit convicts you then asked forgiveness and look for His power to help you stop this play acting." I then continued with the next word by saying, "How many of us has not be envious of someone else. Yet, if we would just ask ourselves a simple question I think we could stop a lot of our envies. That question is how much difference will the thing or person that I am envious of matter when I step out into eternity?" I looked around the room and notice a young lady smiling. She then spoke up and said, "It will not matter at all. What will matter is how I have let it affect my relationship with my Savior." A chorus of Amen's followed. Another young man whose name happened to be Peter spoke up and said," let me take that last word since I must confess that I have been guilty of evil speaking's. I think that Peter is saying in his way what an old saying has said. If you cannot say something good about someone then do not say anything at all." The room became quiet and John said to all of us. "I think that we should all take a moment and confess to our Father any or all points that we have been guilty of after reading what Peter has said." Everyone in the room bowed their heads. You could sense the presence of Jesus as each of us confessed our sins and faults to Him. After praying John asked me to continue. I then said, "I think that Peter is telling us to desire or seek after the pure milk of the Gospel because already I have heard of those who are adding things to our blessed salvation. He wants us to grow in grace not in law." Someone in the back spoke and said if we grow in grace we bloom with the righteousness that God planted in the law. A chorus of claps erupted after he said that. I finished with the words, "We should grow in this grace because we have tasted that the Lord has been gracious and kind to us. John then read and waited for someone to comment.4

2:4. To whom coming as unto a living stone disallowed indeed of men but chosen of God and precious.

The young man whose name was Peter again spoke and said, "He came as the true building stone. He came as the one who has true life. He came as the one who is truly worthy to bear the name of our God. Not only did He come of His own will but He was also chosen or appointed by God to the most exalted place that anyone could ever be exalted to. He is precious and held in honor by our Father the creator of all." Then he began to choke up trying to hold back the tears when he said, "He who had no sin was disapproved by men like us who were born into sin." As he began to sit down he hung his head and almost whispered, "My shame is so great that it almost swallows me."

Again there was silence as we all confessed that without His grace we also could have been one of those who hung Him on that cross. We could be one of the ones traveling with Samuel as he hunted us down while thinking that he was doing God a favor. After a few more moments John said let me continue and speak of the good news.

2:5 Ye also as lively stones are built upon a spiritual house an holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.

John said, "Is it not glorious that we are alive in Christ. We are blessed endlessly in His glorious kingdom. We are stones that are built not on an earthly house but a heavenly spiritual house which is Jesus. We are a holy priesthood." John stopped and asked, "What do you think Peter means when he says we are a holy priesthood?" All was quiet for this was a new concept to most of us. Finally, I spoke up and said, "this is amazing for Peter is saying that we, just the common ordinary people are now holy in Gods eyes. We are allowed to offer sacrifices to Him without the use of a priest." A young lady in the back asked, "but how are supposed to get into the temple when the priests are there?" John smiled and said let me read that part of the letter again," We who are a holy priesthood are able to offer up spiritual sacrifices to God because of Jesus who Himself was the supreme sacrifice." Then John asked, "If we are no longer supposed to offer animal sacrifices then what is a spiritual sacrifice?" All was quiet and then the same young lady stood and with a smile on her face said, "We are to offer our praise, ourselves and our prayers to Jesus our redeemer. "Then she clapped and said," glory to God we can offer ourselves as a sacrifice to live for Him because He offered Himself a sacrifice for us and our sins" After the thanksgiving died down John again began to read.

2:6 Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture. Behold I lay in Zion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believes on Him shall not be confounded.

At this John stopped and asked," Does anyone know where it says that in the scripture?" Many of us though Jews were not really that familiar with the scripture. Sad to say but we had often let the priests, the Pharisees, and the Sadducees tell us what they said instead of seeking for ourselves. I determined right then that I was going to search the scripture for myself and not depend on what others told me. We men were all embarrassed when the same young lady who had just gave glory to God spoke up and said, "I think that the scripture you are talking about is found in the prophet Isaiah." John shook his head in agreement. He then asked her name and she responded it is Leda. Leda began respond, "I think that Peter is referring to Isaiah because Isaiah spoke of our blessed Savior Jesus. He told us that to look and be aware because God was going to bring the chief corner stone or the stone which everything rested on to Jerusalem. This stone who is Jesus has been elected or chosen by God because He has been appointed by God to the most exalted place that one can conceive of. He sits at God's right hand because He is precious and held in honor by the Angels. If we believe Jesus to be this chief corner stone then though we might be despised by the world we will be honored by God."

2:7. Unto you therefore which believe He is precious but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner.

John smiled and said Leda that was beautiful and you actually said what Peter wrote to us in his those words. Leda tells us what you think of what Peter just wrote to us. Leda responded with this, "To us who believe that Jesus is the Messiah His value cannot be measured. He is precious because His value is fixed or set by God. His value was the price He paid for our sins and no matter how hard we could work to pay for them we could never do so." Then Leda smiled and said, "Only grace could pay the price for such disgrace. Yes, He is precious to us but to those who are disobedient. Those who refuse to comply with His grace because of their disbelief He is the stone which though offered is rejected. Rejected and replaced by a stone which has grace marked out and pride etched in. The builders are tripping over the first stone to be laid."

John shook his head and said, "Leda, you again have just said what Peter has written in his next words. Let me read it and then you may again tell us what you think."

2:8 And a stone of stumbling and a rock of offence even to them which stumble at the word being disobedient where unto also they were appointed.

Leda began, "The soul stumbles over the rock who is Jesus because He is a rock of offense to them. They expected something and someone different for a Messiah. They wanted to be lifted up and He told them and us they we must be humbled. We wanted a King and He came as a Savior for our sins. He did not met our expectations but instead of considering our ways to be wrong we withheld our belief. Though He gave proof through His miracles many would not allowed themselves to be persuaded and became that which sin appoints them to. They became His murderers instead of His followers. Praise His name that He opened my eyes."

John shouted," glory to God, glory to God." Then we all began to praise His name together. Then a young fellow said, "He is not a stone of stumbling to us but the rock that hides us from God's wrath." John finally got us to quiet down and said, "You will be thrilled with what Peter next writes to us."

2:9-10. But you are a chosen generation a royal priesthood an holy nation a peculiar people that ye should shew forth the praises of Him who hath called you out darkness into His marvelous light. Which in time past were not a people but are now the people of God which had not obtained mercy but now have obtained mercy."

Naomi with whom we were staying stood up and said, "May I comment on this." John said of course and Naomi began, "When John read that word chosen it struck my soul. I do not think that I have realized until now that we are the best of our kind. By that I mean that because Jesus has saved us we have become the best of mankind. We, because of Jesus have become priests. Not in the line of Aaron because of our natural birth but because of our royal and kingly birth into God's family. We are saints set apart to be holy unto our creator. Set apart to tell and proclaim His marvelous praise and grace to us. To us who He has called out of the darkness of ungodliness and immorality. We are to expose His light to all the world. We are to expose this light that shines in us so that others might escape the eternal misery that awaits them. We were not His children before but now He has extended His mercy to us the afflicted, wretched and blind. He has dressed us in the royal robes of mercy and grace." Naomi stopped and smiled, "I just had to say that. I am sorry if I went on to long." I said, "Naomi, I think that I could have listen to that kind of praise the whole night long." A chorus of Amen's followed. John began to read again the words that Peter had written to us.

2:11. Dearly beloved I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims abstain from fleshy lusts which war against the soul.

I could not help but speak when John read these words to us. I said, "I realize that we have become strangers here on earth. Our home is in heaven with Jesus. We have become foreigners living here just waiting for our glorious entrance into our home land. Peter, begs us to abstain or to cease from those things of the flesh which war against our soul." I thought for a moment and then answered this way, "To me the word flesh means that we are under the control of our human nature instead of our spiritual nature. We are almost like the animals when we live like that. We forget that we are a royal priesthood. A people like no other people on earth. We are not too follow our animal desires but to follow our new desires. To me that word soul means that which makes up my mind, emotion and my will. I no longer want to live my life like that." John said, "I know that to be true. For none who are in Christ truly want to live in the flesh. They want to please their heavenly Father." John then continued to read.

2:12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles that whereas they speak against you as evildoers they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation.

John looked straight at me and I knew why he was looking at me. I had often said disparaging things against the Gentiles. I had often ignored them when I could have helped them. At this moment I felt shame and regret. I then began to speak the following, "I think Peter is telling us that now that we are saved that our lives should change. The way that we live should always be upright having purity of heart and life. If we do this then God will be pleased with us when Jesus again make His appearance. I said a prayer in my heart right then that He would grant me the power to overcome my tongue and my actions. To live a life that would glorify Him." John commented with the words," well said Timothy." He then began to read of some practical ways in which we could bring honor to our Savior and God.

2:13-18.Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake whether it be to the king as supreme or unto governors as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. As free and not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness but as the servants of God. Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King. Servants be subject to your masters with all fear not only to the good and gentle but also to the forward.

John said, "Peter is first of all telling us to obey the laws that men sit down. He tells us that we are not doing it for them but to bring honor to our Savior. By doing this no one will honestly be able to compare themselves with us saying things like well John does this or that so why not I. We have been freed by our Savior and have true liberty in Christ" At this a young lady in the back spoke up and ask John, "What is liberty?" John gave a glorious answer when he said, "True liberty is living as we should and not as we please. Do not use this liberty as a covering to do wickedness for remember our Father knows our every motive. Honor first of all God. Then love your brothers and sisters in Christ. Then honor the King and authorities for it is God who lets them stay there. I know that some of you are servants in another's house but you also must show them Christ by your actions. It matters not if they are kind or cruel for you are chosen by God to display Jesus to those who are lost." Again the same young lady spoke up and said, "But why should I do that for I live with a hard woman who treats me horrible." John responded, "Peter deals with that in the next words that he writes unto us. Let me read them to you."

2:19-20. For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endure grief suffering wrongfully. For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults ye shall take it patiently? But if when ye do well and suffer for it ye take it patiently this is acceptable with God.

After John read this he stopped and looked around for all was quiet in the room. He then asked, "Are there any comments?" After another long silence a elderly gentleman whose name was Aaron spoke up and said, "this is a hard saying John. I can take the blows when confronted with my faults and after a while even confess that I was wrong. But I must admit and confess that when I am doing all I can to live right before my Lord and Savior and I am still getting the blows it sure goes against my nature." A low mumbling of agreement then went through all after Aaron spoke these words. John then said, "I understand but let me read Peter's next words and then let us discuss this further."

2:21-25. For even hereunto were ye called because Christ also suffered for us leaving us an example that we should follow His steps. Who did no sin neither was guile found in His mouth. Who when He was reviled, reviled not again when He suffered He threatened not, but committed himself to Him that judges righteously. Who His own self bare our sins in His own body on that tree that we being dead to sins should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. For ye were as sheep going astray but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.

John then began to talk to us about our Savior. "God loves you and Jesus saved you. But He did not do so just for you He saved you that others might see His grace in you. When Peter says He called us I think He is saying that Jesus called us to receive His name. He called us to be holy saints. He then left us His example and His footsteps to follow. So let me asked you this. Where did His footsteps lead?" After a moment of silence someone very quietly said, "Straight to the cross." Yes, replied John and then he continued, "Then why should it be any different for us. As Peter said He did no sin but we have committed many. There was no guile or deceit found in His words. When He was reviled and abuse was heaped upon Him He gave none back. He suffered, He was threatened but instead of striking back He committed or put Himself into the hands of the only righteous judge. Our God and creator. It was He who placed Himself on the cross made of the wood that He created and suspended Himself between heaven and earth. He put Himself there so that we who had wandered so far from the path of uprightness and honor might once again be approved by God. It was by the stripes that He endured that our healing took place. It was those stripes that brought about our salvation." John choked up and the tears ran down his cheeks. As we all sat there we knew that the presence and holiness of our Savior had entered that room. John then repeated the words that Peter had written and they pierced our souls. He quietly said, "For ye were as sheep going astray being led off of the path of righteousness and virtue. Falling further and further and getting closer and closer to an eternity of darkness without Christ but now because of His love you have been returned. You have been brought back to the Shepherd and guardian of your soul." After He had said this John sat down. I believe that all who were there silently said in their hearts a prayer. A prayer that probably went something like this. Jesus if I suffer betrayal, stripes, imprisonment, torture and even death because of your name even then I could never repay you. Thank my Lord and Savior.

For the rest of the evening we continued with Peter's letter. Everyone took part in the conversation at one time or another. After finishing the letter we took some time for prayer together and then broke up for the night. John and I retired to Naomi's and discussed our plans. We decided that in the morning we would set out for Cappadocia. After tearful farewells we set out early in the morning for Goreme a small city in Cappadocia. After several days journey without incident we arrived and made arrangements to stay at a small inn in the city. We were very careful with our question's but after a long discussion with the inn keeper we discovered that he was a Christian. Again we saw Gods hand of providence in our journey. He said he would gather some others and we would be able to read and discuss Peter's letter in a back room of his inn later that night. After spending a delightful day in the city we gathered again that night in the back meeting room of the inn. There was Levi the innkeeper, Paul and his wife Sarah. Also present was Andrew, Peter, his wife Rachel and her sister Nancy. Again we followed the same pattern as we did in Pontus and Galatia. I will pick up on page three of Peter's letter. John read the following.
Chapter 3

3:1. Likewise ye wives be in subjection to your own husbands that if any obey not the word they also without the word may be won by the conversation of the wives.

John had no sooner read those words and Nancy spoke up and asked, "Is Peter saying if I live in subjection to my husband he will be saved?" John answered, "No, Nancy, I do not think that Peter is saying that. He is saying that if you do live in subjection to your husband there is a better chance of him being saved." Rachel asked, "What does Peter mean by the word subjection?" John answered, "I think that Peter is saying that you should be willing to yield to your husband's advice and to heed or listen to any warning's he might give to you. If your life and conversation are full of Christ he will see the difference that Jesus has made in your life. Perhaps then He will also be saved." Paul spoke up and said, "Well even if he does not get saved at least you can stand before the Lord without his blood being on your hands." At this all said Amen. Sarah then asked, "So how does this work out in the practical part of our lives?" John smiled and said Peter is getting to that let me read it to you."

3:2-6 While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. Who's adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair and of wearing of gold or of putting on apparel. But let it be the hidden man of the heart in that which is not corruptible even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner in the old time the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves being in subjection unto their own husbands. Even as Sara obeyed Abraham calling him lord whose daughters ye are as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement.

John looked at me and said, "Timothy what do you think Peter is saying in these words, "I thought for a moment and answered this way. I do not think that Peter is saying that the ladies should not look and dress nice. I think that he is saying not to follow the ways of the unsaved. We all know that before we came to know Jesus that often what we did was to the excess. We did it to attract attention and to be in fashion. We did it to show others our wealth if we had it. We often did things just to attract attention. I think that he is saying that we no longer have to do that for we have attracted the attention of the creator of the universe. We can now be free from trying to act like the rest of the world. The ladies can now attract attention with their godliness. They can by their meekness be now concerned with pleasing God and not others. I think that God adorns the ladies with the jewelry of a calm and quiet spirit. Abraham's wife Sarah was a good example of this. When Peter says that she called him lord I think he means that she respected him. She believed that he was a man who was trying to follow God with his whole heart and so she would listen to what he said before she spoke." I stopped and looked around at the ladies and said, "I do not think that Peter in any way was trying to say that the men were superior to you."

John laughed and said, "Neither do I for Peter addresses the men in his next words let me read them to you."

3:7 Likewise ye husbands dwell with them according to knowledge giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel and being heirs together of the grace of life that your prayers be not hindered.

Nancy spoke up and said, "I would like to speak about this if I may. I think that Peter is saying that in the same way the women honor their husbands our husbands should also honor us. They should dwell with us in accordance with what we are taught by Christ and His grace not in what they think or feel is right. They should give deference because it is true that God made us the weaker vessel and because of that they should take care in the way that they treat us. If they do their part and we do our part then this grace that we share will become a crown of glory on our lives. When we go to Jesus together to pray our prayers they will ascend like lightning bolts turned around. Instead of coming down to earth to strike fear they will ascend to heaven to become Gods glory." Nancy stopped and all of us looked around at each other. John finally spoke and said, "Peter tells us what will happen if we follow what Timothy and Nancy just said. Let me read his words to you and then we will discuss them.

3:8-11 Finally be ye all of one mind having compassion one of another love as brethren be pitiful be courteous. Not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing but contrawise blessing knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing. For he that will love life and see good days let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips that they speak no guile. Let him eschew evil and do good let him seek peace and ensue it.

John asked Andrew if he would like to have a go at telling us what he thought of Peter's words. Andrew said that he would and then began to speak, "I think that Peter is telling us that as husbands, wives and Christians' we must have certain goals or purposes always in our hearts. If we keep those in our lives then we will honor our Savior. The first thing to keep in mind is that we should have compassion or to try to feel as our brothers and sisters feel when they are faced with problems. We should love them and be tender hearted towards them. Also we should remember that we all have different personalities and will not always think the same. We should realize this and be kind to one another even when we disagree. We all know that there will be times when unbelievers like Samuel will be trying to do us evil. We can often deal with that and understand it but when our own brothers and sisters treat us with contempt it really hurts. If we can refrain from lashing back at them then God promises us a blessing." Rachel spoke up and ask, "What kind of blessing do you think we will receive?" Andrew was quiet for a moment and then a smile lit up his face as he said, "We will resemble our Savior a little more. That is what I think Peter meant when he said if you want to learn to love your life and see good and pleasant days then by the grace of the Holy Spirit who lives within you refrain and restrain your tongues from speaking evil." Andrew stopped with this and became quiet. John finally spoke up and said, "Father, we all have a long way to go but by your grace you will get us there." John then began to read more of Peter's letter.

3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous and his ears are open unto their prayers but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil.

No sooner had John read this than a loud noise was heard out in the small lobby. Levi jumped up and ran into the lobby only to be confronted by Samuel and his group of men. "I know that you are one of them he screamed at Levi but the law will not allowed me to arrest you right now. But I know that John and Andrew are here in your inn and when I find them I will also deal with you for harboring them. Now where are they?" Complete silence followed as Levi just stood there. Samuel then said to the soldiers who were with him, "Spread out and search every room for in one them you will find them and then we will deal with them and this man Levi." There was no place to hide in the room we were in and it was too late to escape out of the small window that was there. Yet I felt a calm come over me as I sat there prepared for whatever was going to happen next. The door slowly opened and taking up all of the space was a large Roman soldier in full armor. He looked at all of us and then raised one finger to his lips telling us to be quiet. He then smiled and closed the door. We could hear the other soldiers reporting back to Samuel that there was no one else in the inn. Levi spoke up and said, "I am afraid that business has been poor lately would you and your men like a room for the night." At this Samuel went into a cursing rage calling Levi every vulgar name that could be uttered. After a minute or so Levi said, "Perhaps you have the wrong inn. There is another one at the other edge of the city. Perhaps they are there." One of the soldiers who I guessed was our deliverer spoke up and said, "Samuel I am tired of this for tonight. I am also getting tired of your outbursts. Let us go to the other inn and check there. If we do not find them we are heading back to Pontus." At this Samuel said nothing and in a few moments I heard the door slam and Levi came back into the room with a huge smile on his face. I am not sure how long we all praised the Lord together but it was a long time. When we finally settled down John began to laugh. We asked him what was so funny. He then began to read the letter again repeating what he had read before. Here is what he read again, "For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous and his ears are opened unto their prayers but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil." He then said let me read the next sentence also, "And who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good?" John said, "God has truly protected us in this instance. His eyes saw where we were and His ears heard what we prayed. What a fitting sentence Peter has wrote for our circumstances. Nothing can touch us which does not pass by the hand of our Savior first. Glory to God" Paul spoke up and said, "Yes, this is wonderful but what about Mark and his death at the hands of Samuel that you and Timothy told us about?" John said, "That is a very good question Paul. Let me read what Peter says next and then you tell me what you think of his words."

3:14 But and if ye suffer for righteousness sake happy are ye and be not afraid of their terror neither be troubled.

Paul began by saying, "I think that Pete is saying that many times we will see the hand of God protecting us just as we just did with Samuel and his soldiers. However there may be other times when we are called upon to suffer and have bad things happen to us. When those things are happening to us because of righteousness sake then we are blessed." John stopped him and asked, "What do you think that Peter meant when he said for righteousness sake?" Paul answered this way, "I think it is when a man is living in a way or condition that is acceptable to God. When he lives with integrity, virtue, purity of life, rightness and correctness of thinking and feeling. When we are living that way we do not have to be troubled or living in anxiousness or distress. We do not have to have a spirit of fear and dread for our Savior will strengthen and hold us up in those moments. I now recall what you told us that Mark said as he laid there beaten and bruised. His life ebbing from him. He smiled and looked to heaven and said this concerning our salvation. "More precious than gold. More precious than gold." All of us were struck again with those words that Mark had uttered as he looked into his Savior's face. After a quiet moment John said let me continue. I think that Peter's next words sums up what we have been talking about.

3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear.

John looked around and waited for one of us to say what we thought of Peter's words. Andrew spoke up and said, "I think that Peter is telling us to separate from the worldly things. This separation has to be an inward thing. It has to come from our seeking to be with our Lord. We Jews have tried it the other way by separating ourselves from the world in a prideful and self-righteous manner. Because of this our lives and words have never carried much power. But if we separate ourselves by an inward manner then we will be able and prepared to tell others about Jesus. We will want to tell them of our joyful and confident expectation of eternal salvation through Him. Instead of a spirit of self-righteous we will speak with a spirit of gentleness and meekness. Even though we speak of the judgment to come we will tell of the forgiveness that is present now if they will come to the Savior." John spoke up and said, "Peter next tells us in his letter that even though we may speak with meekness it will not always be received that way. Listen to what he says next."

3:16. Having a good conscience that where as they speak evil of you as evildoers they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ.

John said, "Our duty is to tell others of the Savior. If we do that when we come before our Father our conscience will be clear. It will not be accusing us of our guilt. But at the same time those who you have tried to tell of the Savior out of love may accuse you of being a trouble maker as Samuel does. They may say that you are a fool as many of the Greeks do. Some may say that you are trying to overcome the Roman government. But as we stand before the judge of heaven and earth our conscience will be clear from their blood. On the other in the still of the night as they who accused you lay on their bed trying to sleep that small voice will say to them. What crime would you honestly accuse them of? Would it be the crime of wanting you to go to heaven? Even if you believe them to be wrong. What wrong have they done to you? While they wrestle with that voice you will welcome its silence and sleep the sleep of the saved in Christ. John then began to read again.

3:17 For it is better if the will of God be so that ye suffer for well doing than for evil doing.

John then continued to speak saying, "Peter then tells us that if we are going to suffer would it not be better to suffer in doing the will of God than for not doing it. I think we all know that it is His will that we tell others about Him." Levi spoke up and said, "That has always been His will for us. That is why He chose us. I am sorrowful that before Christ my life showed so little of our God. However now that I have met our Savior I pray that for whatever time I have left that I may honor Him. Whether it be in suffering or wellbeing may all I do give glory to Him. May we be to others the example of our example?" John said, "That is exactly what Peter says next let me read it to you."

3:18 For Christ also has once suffered for sins the just for the unjust that He might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh but quickened by the Spirit.

Rachel spoke up and said, "What a wonderful Savior He is. He suffered for us who had wandered so far from the path of uprightness and honor. He whose way of thinking. He whose way of acting and He whose way of feeling was perfectly conformed to the will of God. He willing suffered for us. He took all of that wrong upon His own flesh and went to His death. Then He gloriously arose from the dead as the Spirit of God again brought life to His flesh. Glory to God He has done the same for us. We were already dead in our sins until we received Him as Savior. When we did then our spirits were also quickened and brought to life by His Spirit. I say it again what a wonderful Savior He is." There was a round of delightful praise and worship among us as we all thanked Him again for His sacrifice. After we had quieted down John began to read again.

3:19-21 By which also He went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Which sometime were disobedient when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah while the ark was a preparing wherein few that is eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism does also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh but the answer of a good conscience toward God) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ.

After reading this portion of the letter John looked around the room and asked, "Anyone want to give this a try?" A silence followed as no one volunteered. John's gaze settled on me and he said, "Timothy why don't you tell us what you think?" I agreed and began this way. "First, let me say that I am a little confused by Peter's words but when I see him I will asked him to tell me exactly what he meant when he wrote them. (This never happened because before I was ever able to see Peter he was crucified for the cause of Christ). It seems as if Peter is telling us that Jesus went to those who spirits were being held in limbo until the time that Jesus came. Those spirits who were held there were ones who during the time of Noah had heard of the saving knowledge of God and were also offered salvation. Yet, they refused to believe even though God gave them all of that time to do so. They still believed and perhaps were even shouting that Noah was saved because of his works because he built the ark. They may have thought that their lives were as righteous as Noah's was. Perhaps Jesus went there to show them that they had no excuse because Noah was saved because of faith not because he built the ark. The ark saved him because of his faith not because of his works. God could have carried Noah and the animals off in a cloud if He had chosen to save him in that way. I think the next words of Peter's letter may prove that when he compares the ark and the water with baptism. John, I know that when you baptized me it was like I was resurrected just like Jesus was. He came up out of the grave and I came up out of the water." John then said, "Let me make sure that I understand what you are saying Timothy. You are saying that it was not the ark that saved Noah. It was faith that saved Noah. I nodded my head and responded, "It was faith that saved Noah. The ark was only a symbol of that faith. Just as baptism is a symbol of our faith. Our faith is in the resurrection of our Savior Jesus Christ. Perhaps that is also part of the reason Jesus went into prison to point out to those souls that is was Noah's faith that saved him and not his works. If that is what Peter meant then it only goes to show how just and righteous our God is for it leaves no man with any excuse for not having faith. It shows us that our works cannot save us as Noah's works could not save him. It was his belief that caused him to build the ark. Perhaps that is why Peter wrote it is not the stopping of the works of the flesh that will save us but it is a clear and cleansed conscience towards God and His mercy that saves us." I stopped there and looked around. John asked if some were still confused by what Peter what written. Rachel spoke us and said, "Yes, I am but I do not want to get stuck on this." John smiled and said, "When I read what Peter has written next I think that you can become unstuck." We all laughed and listened as John began to read.

3:22 Who is gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto Him.

After reading this John said, "I think that as the ages pass men will take many of the things that the apostles of Christ said and try to twist them to make them fit as they want them to fit. I also think that if this letter of Peter's survives that there will be many interpretations and theories about it. But as Rachel said I do not want to get stuck on those things. However, what I have just read is something that I can get stuck on if I want to get stuck on something. Our Jesus has ascended into heaven and He now sits on Gods right hand in a place of honor and authority. He is now the King that we rejoice in. He is King over the angels. He is King over all the governments of this world and He is King over all the powers that be. Whether those powers be demonic or the powers of nature. Glory to God He is King and we are His heirs." We all began to clap and say amen to these words. Levi spoke up and said, "Yes, glory to God and Jesus. I am now stuck on the one who sits in glory." We continued on with Peter's letter that night not finishing until the light of day had begun to come upon us. John and I then prayed with all who were there and retired to one of Levi's room for some rest. We had decided that we needed to leave for Sardis that night. I had a cousin there by the name of Eli who was also a believer. We prayed and decided that we would take the letter to Eli and his family. While we rested and slept Levi stayed up on copied down the letter so that he and the group could share it with other believers. We woke up around five that afternoon and found Levi asleep in his chair. We were going to just leave and let him get some rest when through the door came Rachel and Nancy with all kinds of supplies for our journey. Levi woke up and we all prayed together and praised the Lord. Then John and I set out for Sardis.
Chapter 4

After a few days we arrived in Sardis and knocked at the door of Eli's house. He welcomed us with open arms. We told him of Peter's letter and of our mission to share it with as many believers as possible. Eli copied down Peter's words and then ask if we could meet with some fellow believer's as we had done in the previous places. We of course said we would be delighted to do so. That night a group of us gathered in Eli's house. Present were Eli's wife Leah and his oldest son Jacob. We had decided to wait until the younger children were put to bed and asleep before beginning. Also present were Eli's friends and fellow believers Isaac and Adam and their wives Judith and Ruth. Again I will pick up with Peter's letter where we left off while we were with Levi and his group. John began by reading the following.

4:1 Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh arm yourselves likewise with the same mind for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin.

John then said, "I will get us started by commenting on what I think that Peter is telling us in these words. I think he is saying that since Jesus suffered for us by taking on our likeness in the form of human flesh. Then He took our sins to the cross with Him leaving us an example as to how much our Creator and Father hated sin. By setting this example we should have the same mind and the same way of thinking about sin that Jesus did. We should want to cease from it. As a matter of fact let me read the next sentence for Peter tells us just that."

4:2 That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men but to the will of God.

Adam spoke up and said, "None of us know how much time we have left in this world so why spend our time chasing after it. We should not be chasing after those things which our God says is forbidden. I think if we would think of the price that Jesus paid to free us from those passions and desires then we would end up pursuing those things that God wishes for us." Adam stopped and looked around sheepishly and said, "I am sorry but I see so many of those who say that they are our fellow believers who seemed to be no different than they were before they professed their belief. I must confess that it truly baffles and sometimes disturbs me." John then said, "I know what you mean Adam. However all each of us can do is keep looking to the cross for our strength and comfort. Peter goes on to tell us some of the things that we should not be doing. Sad to say these are still some of the things that those professed believers are still doing. Let me read what he says next and then Ruth you tell us what you think of his words."

4:3-4. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banqueting's, and abominable idolatries. Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot speaking evil of you.

Ruth then began to speak saying, "All of us have a past. A past that should shame most of us. A past where we lived and passed our lives just as the Gentiles did. We too partook of lasciviousness in that many of us felt no shame in the things that we did. We followed our lusts or our own cravings for those things which God had told us were forbidden. Things such as excess of wine and drunkenness. We shared in their revelings like they did in Sodom and Gomorrah parading through the streets cursing and yelling late into the night. Shameful to say but we went to their banquets where they would worship what they called their gods or dignities and sat there with them even though we had been taught the laws of our Creator." Ruth became teary eyed as she said, "Is it any wonder that they now are surprised and astonished that we no longer run or practice that same way of life. At one time we were the same and now we are different. They do not understand for their eyes have not been opened to the Savior as ours have. So they can do no more than what they know to do and that is to explain away our behavior as strange and weird. They do that just as we did to justify their own behavior. Now I am so ashamed of what I used to be so proud of." With this she choked up and could say no more. John quietly said, "We all are Ruth. We all are." He then began to read more of Peter's words to us.

4:5 Who shall give account to Him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead.

Eli spoke up and said, "I do not care who you are whether you be a king or a pauper. A priest or a thief. A man or a woman that is a scary thought. Peter is telling us that no matter who we are we shall give explanation as to the way we have lived our lives. I think it is even more frightening that we will give this explanation to the one who gave His life so that we could live above so much of what we are to explain. What I mean is this. If we who have been mercifully forgiven because of our belief in the precious sacrifice of Jesus continue to live in our former way of life then how will we explain that to Him? How will we explain our lives to Him as He sets in front of us on the seat of judgment? I for one am already ashamed of so many things that I have done even as a believer." With this Eli also stopped and the room became very quiet. Finally John spoke up and said, "Let's all take a moment and ask again for His mercy and forgiveness. Let us all ask again for His power and grace to live the lives that His sacrifice for us deserves." After we had prayed together John began to read more of Peter's words.

4:6 For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead that they might be judged according to men in the flesh but live according to God in the spirit.

John looked at me and said, "Timothy, why don't you give this a try?" I responded and again said, "I will, but when I see Peter I am going to ask him for a little more explanation. (As I previously mentioned this never happened because Peter was martyred before I ever saw him again.) I think that the gospel was preached to those who are dead but were alive before Jesus came. These men heard of God's grace through the sacrifices and refused them. They even persecuted those who did honor God by believing that they would be saved by his grace through the sacrifices. These who believed were judged as fools by their peers while in the flesh. They are now honored as saints in the spirit. I think that the same gospel is preached to those who now are spiritually dead and still refuse the sacrifice of grace that is offered them. Men such as Samuel who pursues us even now. They will soon see that Jesus is able to judge whether they be dead or alive and to call all into account for their actions. These are my thoughts on these words that Peter wrote. Perhaps someone else has some other thoughts." John waited a few moments and no one spoke up. John then said, "I again think that we should concentrate on the major thing that Peter wrote. That Jesus is able to call into account and judge all whether they be physically dead or spiritually dead. I want to live my life based on that knowledge and ask for His power and grace so that I may honor Him." At this all of us said Amen. John then began to read more of Peter's words.

4:7 But the end of all things is at hand be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer.

Jacob spoke up and said, "I think it is wonderful how Peter always brings us back to that which is most important with his words. He always brings us back to our concentration on God our Father and to Jesus our Savior. He is telling us that Jesus coming back is to be very soon. He is telling us that things as we know them will be coming to an end. He is telling us to be calm and collected in our spirits. Many will try to get us to debate and argue about those who were here before Jesus came. They will try to pull us into dissension with them and with one another. Peter is telling us again to concentrate on that which is important. He is telling us to live our lives as if Jesus was going to come back in the very next hour. If we do that we will be praying instead of debating. We will be praising instead of pondering. We will live in a spirit of rejoicing instead of remorse." At those words we all clapped our hands and said Jacob is right let us rejoice about our salvation instead of worrying about all the things we do not know. John them said, "Jacob is so right listen to Peter's next words.

4:8-9 And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves for charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging.

John spoke to Leah and said, "Leah since we are in your and Eli's house and most the burden of us is on you tell us your thoughts on these words of Peter's." Leah answered in this way, "When Eli told me about every one being here tonight I must admit that I wondered how I was going to get the children to bed. Then make a little something to eat and do all of those other little things to be prepared. But then a thought came to me, a little whisper, and I prayed and asked our gracious Savior to help me get ready and to have the right attitude in getting ready. I must admit that I was amazed at how much I enjoyed just working side by side with my Savior as I prepared everything. Instead of a burden it became a joy. Instead of a chore it became a blessing to me. I think that perhaps Peter means that if we will approach our lives in union with our Savior then the things that we have to do will cover a multitude of sins that we will probably commit because we are doing those things in the flesh instead of doing them together with Jesus in the Spirit. When we work with Him we will find that instead of murmuring silently we will be praising outwardly." Eli spoke up and said, "I apologize to you Leah for not being more of a help when we found out about tonight." Then Jacob also said, "Mother, I am also sorry and I am going to ask the Lord to help me to be more helpful around here. Not only more helpful but helpful with the right Spirit." All of us were amazed how the Lord could take one person's small obedience and turn it into a lesson for everyone. John then said let me continue with Peters words to us.

4:10-11. As every man has received the gift even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister let him do it as of the ability which God gives that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever Amen.

John then said to Judith who had been quiet up until this moment. Judith why don't you give these words a try. Judith began this way, "I think that we all receive a gift. That gift is holiness, virtue, faith, purity and all the other things that come when we get saved and the Holy Spirit comes and makes His residence with us. I fear that most of us take little notice of such a precious endowment. We receive this and it truly is a gift from our Father as we did nothing to earn it. We should use these gifts to minister or serve others whether it be by supplying food or a place to stay as Eli and Leah have tonight. Yes, we all have been supplied with this wonderful gift of grace from our Father to be used to minister to others. I think that some have been given special gifts and by special I do not mean that they are any more special than any other believers it just that all have been given different abilities in different ways. When we speak of the things of God as we are doing here tonight we must be careful in speaking of these things to others. We must not be afraid to say as Timothy did earlier that we are not sure what someone meant. I thought it wonderful when he spoke of Peter's words and said I am not sure. So many will just say that God says this and God says that without ever studying to find out what God actually says. I am sorry for going on and on but I think that we must be careful in the things we say so that we honor Jesus. So that the things we say do truly glorify Him who has been given all power and dominion." Judith stopped and smiled. John then said, "Thank you so much for that Judith. You have touched my conscience in the fact that we must be careful with our words to others. We must be careful to say the things of Christ and not the things of ourselves. We must study the words of our Lord so that we can give a right answer to those who ask us." We all nodded in agreement and John then continued with Peter's words to us.

4:12 Beloved think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened unto you.

What fiery trial do you think Peter is talking about? Why should we not think it strange? I spoke up and replied, "I have come to believe that by being a believer it is going to cost all of us something. We are going to be tested and our feet are going to be put to the fire because the world hated Jesus and still does. When we think on what the world did to Him we should not be surprised or astonished that given enough leeway it would do the same to us. We do not have to look very far to find a Samuel who thinks he is doing the world a favor by persecuting us. I watched as they stoned Mark and saw the glee on their faces as they did so. My prayer is that I will stay true to that which I know to be true. That I will stand for the one who hung on a cross for me. Right now I ask Jesus to keep me close to Him and rejoice if He would find me worthy to be called by His name." All of us nodded in consent and John continued with these words.

4:13-14 But rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings that when His glory shall be revealed ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ happy are ye for the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you on their part He is evil spoken of but on your part He is glorified.

John said, "Timothy, why don't you continue with your thoughts on these words of Peter's that I just read." I thought about Peter's words and then expressed myself in this way. At first it seemed strange for he was asking us to rejoice and be glad when we suffered with Him. Not only to be rejoicing with Him but to be rejoicing exceedingly. Then a thought came to me. How else could we know of His glory? How else could it be revealed to us if we were not partakers of some of the same things that He partook of? Again the Lord had reminded me that being a believer was not to have a magic genie in the sky who answered our every whim. It was not to have great riches and fame. No, being a believer was to have Christ residing in you and yielding to Him so that you might have a resemblance to Him in some small way. Peter was saying that if we were reproached when it was undeserved was to have the spirit of glory resting upon us. It would be just as it was when He walked among us. For they would be speaking evil of Him while He would be glorified in us." I stopped and looked at the others knowing that we were all feeling the same thing. Our Savior who was residing in us still had a lot of transforming to do." John quietly said, "Now let me tell you of what Peter writes next."

4:15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody in other men's matters.

After John had read this Ruth let out a gasp and everyone turned to her. She looked sheepish and said, "I guess that I should comment on these words of Peter's for they hit me square in the face. I have never murderer anyone. I have never stolen anything nor have I really been one to plan and plot evil to others. However I must confess that often I try to meddle and to pry into others affairs. Peter has just put meddling in the same category as murder and stealing. I have been convicted and now realize that our Father and creator wants us to be holy in every way. He loves us so much that He will leave nothing untouched that pertains to our old way of life. What is amazing to me is that when He convicts and points out these things and I confess my wrong and ask for His help in overcoming them I feel so clean and peaceful. I do not want to meddle any longer in what does not pertain to me." Eli spoke up and said, "I too have meddled and am asking for our Savior's grace not to meddle anymore." John said, "We all have areas of our lives that Jesus is working on. He only ask us to come and honestly confess our weakness so that He can help us. The sad thing is that many will not come but still try to cover up what He already knows. Thank you Ruth and Eli for your contrite and honest hearts. Let me continue with Peter's next words.

4:16 Yet if any man suffer as a Christian let him not be ashamed but let him glorify God on this behalf.

John said, "I think that Peter brings us back to what he mentioned previously. After telling us what we should not be he then tells us that we may suffer because of our belief in our Savior. He again tells us that this is an honor if we suffer for Christ's name. If we do suffer it brings glory. It actually brings dignity to the person of Jesus when we willing suffer because of Him and in place of Him." John then read what Peter wrote next.

4:17 For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God if it first begin at us what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God?

Isaac began to shake his head back and forth. John said, "Isaac why don't you tell us what you think of these words of Peter's. Isaac then said, "I fear that most of us are walking around with blinders on. Many seem to think that because we profess our belief in Jesus that there is nothing else to it. We have our safety for eternity assured. So now we can go on and live as we please. Peter is trying to tell us that is not the case. Let me give you an example if one of my children is standing on the edge of a cliff with another child. Let's say that for some reason they are getting ready to jump off thinking that they will float safely to the ground below. I will naturally reach for my child first and pull him back. I will then of course reach for the other child. I will then of course discipline my child accordingly. For some reason we seem to think that we can always be jumping off cliffs with no consequences to follow from our Father." John said, "Isaac you have stated it perfectly and I did not mean to interrupt you but you have led us up to Pete's next words. Let me read them and then please continue if you will"

4:18 And if the righteous scarcely be save where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?

Isaac continued, "Peter then tells us that we as saved people have been rescued just in the nick of time from falling off the cliff. What will it be like for the ones who do fall off when Jesus appears? I think that what scares me the most for a lot of people that I know is the fact that they walk so close to the cliff but never seemed to get disciplined by their heavenly Father for doing so. You would think that they would began to check up on the facts and make sure that He really is their Father and that they are just not fooling themselves. I can only speak for myself but I can tell you that He has disciplined me many times. I can also tell you that after the discipline that it brought peace and joy to my soul." Isaac stopped and John said, "Thank you Isaac I think that many of us have those around us who profess salvation but show no signs of it. I for one am thankful that God does not let us know that state of each man's soul. I am thankful that it truly is a very personal thing between each individual and his Creator. All we can do is continue to live our own lives as close to our Savior as we can. To take each person at what they say and pray for one another. Let me continue with Peter's words."

4:19 Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to Him in well doing as unto a faithful Creator.

John then said, "I think that Peter is bringing us back to the real crux of the matter. If we do suffer let us do so for our Savior. Let us entrust our souls to Him. Let us not try to decide if everyone around is saved or not. For He will bring the truth of that out. May we just remember that He is faithful though our world fall may apart." We continued with the rest of Peter's letter each of us saying what we thought the Lord would have us to say. After finishing we had prayer for one another. John and I planned to continue our journey in the morning so we decided to retire for the night.
Chapter 5

It was obvious that John was not feeling well as we laid down to rest but by morning he had developed a very high fever. We knew that it would be a matter of days before he was able to continue. So reluctantly I took Peter's letter and some supplies and set out for Asia by myself. Eli said that he would nurse John back to health and he could catch up with me later. Fortunately for me the journey went very smoothly without any incidents. On arriving in a small village I went to a local market place and stopped at one of the booths to buy some figs. As I talked with the man who had the booth he turned the conversation to spiritual matters by asking me what I thought of the one called Jesus. At first I was frightened but then God gave me boldness and I answered that I believed that He was just who He said He was the Messiah. The man stood there and looked straight at me for what seemed like an eternity and then softly said, "I also believe." He then embraced me and asked why I was here in his village. I explained to him about Peter's letter and all that had happened to John and me. Again I was to experience God's amazing providential care. He told me that his name was Andrew and his wife was Beth. He offered me a place to stay and said that he would gather some believers that very night if I would continue with Peter's letter so that they could hear. I graciously accepted and that night was introduced to Beth, John, Mary, Sarah, Joseph and Abel all believers. All anxious to hear of Peter's words. Again I will pick up where John and I left off in Sardis.

5:1 -3The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God which is among you taking the oversight thereof not by constraint but willingly not for filthy lucre but of a ready mind. Neither as being lords over God's heritage but being examples to the flock.

I had been introduced to Abel who was the leader and the teacher for the group so I asked him to tell us what he thought of these words of Peter's. Abel responded this way, "These words which Peter wrote to us put's a tremendous responsibility on any of us whom God has chosen to be a leader. I think the first thing that comes to my mind is how desperately I need the prayers of my fellow believers for I am weak and of the flesh as we all are. It is as easy for me to fail to follow our Savior as it is for any to do so. I also believe that we are all leaders in one way or another whether it be with our employees, wives or children. God has given each of us responsibilities. Because of that as Peter's words speak to me they also speak to each of us here. We are not to lead with force or as Peter says with constraint but we are to lead with a willingly and voluntary mind because of Christ our Savior. He forced no man to follow Him as we should force no one to follow us. All of us here also have seen how our fellow Jews have tried to gain prominence and when they did they would take advantage lining their pockets with money. I am grateful to all of you for your giving to me and I do not believe that an elder or leader should live in a means above that of his people but he should live in a moderate way. I say this because I do not think that those who have less among us should be able to say that Abel is in this only for the money or that those who have more among us should be greedy because it looks as if their leader is. I guess I am saying what Peter has said in a different way that because we are God's own children all of us should be examples to one another." Abel stopped and smiled and then said, "Sorry if I got a little long winded." We all chuckled and I then read Peter's next words to us.

5:4 And when the chief Shepherd shall appear ye shall receive a crown of glory that fades not away

Beth exclaimed, "Oh that is glorious. It is so glorious that if we as leaders no matter in what degree or what manner when Jesus our shepherd appears and makes Himself know to the world we shall receive a crown" Beth stopped and looked at me and asked, "What do you think this crown will be like Timothy?" I started to describe what I thought this crown of glory would look like but as I did so I realized that if it were made of something physical there was a chance it could fade away. After a long pause I answered Beth this way, "Beth I think that the crown will be a crown of eternal blessedness. It will be a crown which gives us that glorious condition of blessedness which we shall enter into when our Savior and Chief Shepherd comes back." Beth spoke up again and said, "I think you are right for His blessedness which we will be allowed to partake of will last forever. Please Timothy read us more of Peter's words." I then read the following.

5:5-6 Likewise ye younger submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility. For God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God that He may exalt you in due time.

I asked John to comment on these words of Peter's and he began with what he thought Peter meant by elder this is how he responded, "I think that Peter meant that we should subject ourselves to those who are more mature in the faith than we. We all know that we should submit ourselves to our parents. However that has also changed with Jesus because we can only submit to them as long as it is in accordance with Gods precepts in mind. For He has now become our spiritual Father and there can and will be times when this spiritual relationship will take place over our physical relationship. At the same time we all should be willing to subject and to yield to one another's advice and at times each other's admonition and correction. If we do this then we will be humbling ourselves under God's hand. We will then partake of more and more of His grace and when He returns for us He will raise us up in honor, dignity and happiness." John then stopped and I responded, "Very well said John. I think that probably spoke to all of us. May each of us follow Jesus's example and do as Peter has written us. Let me continue with Peter's next words to us."

5:7 Casting all your care upon Him for He cares for you.

Mary spoke up and said, "Oh how I need to do this. I realize and understand that nothing can cross my path unless it has first crossed His path. Yet, I find myself many times full of anxiety and care. Plagued with trifles my mind filled with endless worries. How in the world can I stop this Timothy?" I sat for a minute and then I realized something. I said to Mary, "Mary, I was with John for quite a while as we traveled with this letter. Often I would find myself in the same state of mind that you find yourself. Even when I did not say anything John in his wisdom would sense that I was filled with anxiety and worry. He would say just two things to me. First, he would ask me. Timothy all that you seemed to be struggling with right now will it really matter when you step into eternity. Second, he would say to me Timothy concentrate on what you do know not on what you don't know. Then he would ask me some questions. Questions such as. Do you have a place reserved in heaven? Is your salvation more precious than gold. Does your heavenly Father know where you are at this present time? After a while I began to form the same habit of mind that he ask me about. I would find myself asking myself the same questions. Does any of that help you?" Mary smiled and said my salvation is more precious that gold." At that we all gave a loud Amen and I continued.

5:8-9 Be sober be vigilant because your adversary the devil as a roaring lion walks about seeking whom he may devour. Whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.

I asked Joseph who had been very quiet up to this point if he would like to comment on these words of Peter's. He nodded his head in assent and began this way. "There are some words that really caught my attention when you read them Timothy. The first one is the word sober. I think what Peter means by this word is that we keep ourselves calm and collected in spirit. That we have self-control for God will not control us. He does not control people for He gave us all free choice. However by staying calm and collected He will guide us. That word vigilant means to be cautious and ever watchful. Always in prayer and communion with our Savior. Why? Because we have an opponent and enemy. An enemy who is vigilant. Who by his loudness seeks to destroy us." Sarah interrupted and asked, "What do you mean by his loudness Joseph?" Joseph said, "Well, his loudness in the world. The noise that he brings in worldly things. Have you ever noticed that most things of the world are very loud and distracting? Such as the drunkenness of some or the dancing and music of others. If not the noise on the outside certainly the noise on the inside. Those thoughts that come racing into your mind. Those images that sometimes come back to your memory. We should always ask ourselves if the things we are thinking are really our thoughts. As we said God will not control our minds for He does not do that. He wants our willing obedience and cooperation. Set yourself against this roaring. Resist and oppose it in a steadfast and immovable way. Yes, resist in the faith. Resist in your conviction that you are one of God's children. That salvation has been bestowed upon you by the precious blood of your Savior Jesus. Resist in the fact that you are indwelt by the Spirit of God Himself. That His character can be relied on and that nothing can pass by you that has not passed by Him Finally we must remember that what happens to us is not unusual for all the brethren face the same afflictions and trials. Remember that your enemy will try to make you think that you are the only one who is going through hard times. "Joseph stopped and we were all silent for a moment. Then Abel said bless your soul Joseph for God has revealed those words to you. We then all had prayer together asking our Father and our Savior to help us yield ourselves to him. Then Mary said, "Please read on Timothy." I then continued with these words.

5:10-11 But the God of all grace who has unto His eternal glory by Christ Jesus after that ye have suffered a while make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. To Him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

I made the comment that we were coming to the end of Peter's letter and what fitting words these were as we were coming to the end. Sarah asked if she might speak to these words and we all said by all means do so. She began by saying, "He is the God of all grace. It is His merciful kindness on us the weak and afflicted that begins to prepare us for His never ending glory. The glory that we will be allowed to partake of for all eternity. Yes, we may suffer some here but even suffering will perfect and mend that which is broken in us. It will render us constant and steadfast in our hearts and minds. Through Jesus we will be made strong in our souls and settle and stable in our spirits. I echo Peter's praise to Him. I want to shout it from the rooftops. To Him be glory, splendor and brightness forever. For all of eternity He will have the dominion and power. Glory to His name." None of us could contain ourselves any longer. We all began to praise the Lord and tell of the wonderful way He had changed our very nature. This went on for a good half hour as we sang, prayed and praised together. We finally settled down and I said let me finish with Peter's last words.

5:12-14 By Silvanus a faithful brother unto you as I suppose. I have written briefly exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand. The church that is at Babylon elected together with you salute and so does Marcus my son. Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace be with you and all that are in Christ Jesus. Amen.

After finishing Peter's letter we all had fellowship and ate a meal with one another. Abel copied down Peter's letter to read it to others who had not been able to attend. I told all that I would be leaving in the morning for my home in Pontus. I was looking forward to going home though I did not know what danger might be waiting for me. We all bid goodnight. Andrew got up at the break of day and gave me some food for my journey. We embraced and I bid farewell.

So what happened next? My life became amazingly peaceful and calm. Upon arriving in Pontus I again saw Gods amazing providential care for I had no sooner entered the city and I ran into James. I told him all about my travels with John and the Lords provision for us. I asked him had he heard any news about John. He answered that John had recovered and was going to stay with Eli to encourage the believers there. I then fearfully asked about Samuel. He told me that Samuel had mysteriously died in the middle of the night. There were no signs of foul play. He was just dead when they found him in his bed in the morning. I remain in Pontus and help James with the church there. Sometimes God asked us to do one thing. One thing that takes faith and courage. I am so thankful that I decided to go with John and take Peter's letter to the other provinces. Who knows what those words will mean to all believers in the future. They might become more precious than gold to all.

The End

To our Savior who finds us more precious than gold may we find Him the same.

In Christ,

Don Hatfield.

Copywrite 2015

Smashwords Edition

