
The Queen's Mystery

## An Emerging Queens Novella

By

Jamie K. Schmidt
Also by Jamie K. Schmidt

Hawaii Heat

Beach Happens

Beach My Life

The Club Inferno Series

Heat

Longing (Coming Soon)

Fever (Coming Soon)

The Emerging Queens

The Queen's Wings

The Queen's Flight

The Queen's Dance

The Queen's Mystery

The Truth & Lies Series

Truth Kills

Truth Reveals

Standalone

Trinity

Flash Magic

Naked Truth

Shifter's Price

Maiden Voyage

The Graveyard Shift

Watch for more at Jamie K. Schmidt's site.

# Table of Contents

Title Page

Also By Jamie K. Schmidt

The Queen's Mystery (The Emerging Queens)

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

The Emerging Queens Series

Other books by Jamie K. Schmidt:

Truth & Lies Series

Truth Kills Prologue

Truth Kills Chapter One

Sign up for Jamie K. Schmidt's Mailing List

Further Reading: Beach Happens

About the Author
This story takes place before the events in The Queen's Wings.

The Queen's Mystery is a work of fiction. Names, places, and incidents either are products of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously.

Copyright @2016 by Jamie K. Schmidt.

All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce, distribute, or transmit in any form or by any means.

By payment of required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive, non-transferable right to access and read the text of this book. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter invented without the express written permission of copyright owner.

Please Note

The reverse engineering, uploading, and/or distributing of this book via the internet or via any other means without the permission of the copyright owner is illegal and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or encourage electronic piracy of copyrighted materials. Your support of the author's rights is appreciated.

No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retrieval system, without the written permission of the publish­er, except where permitted by law.

Cover Design by Thomas Schmidt

Thank you.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter One

She walks in beauty, like the night

Bianca stood outside the dragon's bookstore and willed herself not to run away. She felt like the Little Match Girl. The biting wind cut through her coat and snowflakes dusted her eyelashes. Instead of lighting matches to keep warm, she was huddled in the doorway trying to figure out why the musky, Old Spice scent of the dragon smelled like coming home.

Byron's Classic Books looked like an antique store from the outside. It was a well kept secret in the dragon community. Nothing on the outside of the shop gave it away. Byron liked his privacy, disliked humans in general, and lived for books of all shapes and sizes. While the other stores on this block were decked out in holiday cheer, the bookstore was dark and uninviting.

Glancing down at the small children's book Niall had given her to bribe her way in, Bianca noticed her hand was shaking when she wiped the plastic covering. She wasn't afraid of the dragon, she was afraid of herself. She was going to start her new job at Smythe Industries in January as a dragon human liaison. It was a golden opportunity, and she was going to blow it if Byron couldn't help her. Apparently, this little book was the key to his cooperation.

Before she left Niall's office, she flipped through the pages. It was an illustrated 1872 copy of The Princess and the Goblin by George MacDonald. Color pictures hadn't been invented yet. Or rather they had, but it wasn't widely used. But this copy had illustrations that no human had added to the book. A dragon child added his own illustrations of the golden haired princess and her friend Curdie, the miner's son. The pictures had been magicked into the book. It was one of a kind. Niall had assured her, Byron would give her anything she wanted for this missing piece of his collection.

She swallowed past a lump in her throat. She needed to trade this children's book for an old diary from a monk who was in The Order of the Dragon Slayers. But more important, she had to remember that mission when she was alone with the dragon. She had always been attracted to dragons. Who wouldn't? The dragon Queens­ were mystery incarnate. There were only five of them in the world now, the last Queen dying way before Bianca was born. There hadn't been a new Queen in centuries. But the male dragon, or studs as they were called, made the Earth their playground. There was never a shortage of humans to do their bidding in exchange for touching greatness.

This year, her infatuation became much more ominous for Bianca. Dragons of all shapes and sizes dropped what they were doing and huddled around her--just to smell her. It was the weirdest thing she'd ever experienced. If she decided to sell her body, she could be living large right now. Bianca had been tempted, especially after the last dragon offered her a Bentley and an expense account at Tiffany's. But her abeula would've had a stroke.

Bianca finally went to Yale's department of Draconia to speak with the Great Wyrm, Niall, to see if he knew why she was suddenly catnip to dragons. Niall was one of the older dragons, the young ones--studs--usually died in adolescence from fighting each other as their hormones went berserk. Niall was old when the dragons signed the Treaty of 1099 with The Order of Dragon Slayers to broker peace between humans and dragons.

Niall noticed her twitching in his classroom at Yale and called her up to the podium after the lecture. He was wise enough to notice the symptoms and had his assistant, Carolyn with him at all times. They didn't call him the All Knowing for nothing. Carolyn was human, like Bianca, and spent most of the time with her nose in a book.

"You have an intriguing scent," he told her, after they ruled out she was wearing a new perfume or used a new laundry detergent. "It would attract younger males to you like bees to clover, with the same thought of . . ." Niall cleared his throat. "Pollinating."

"I don't want to be a sex toy to studs," Bianca said, crossing her legs tight at the ankle and wringing her hands.

They tried several things. Niall introduced her to several studs, all with the same results. The adolescent males had to be physically restrained from grabbing her and running away with her. The older the dragon, the more controlled the reaction. Niall had arranged for her to go to the Dragon Embassy for testing because he said she had an unusual aura. That turned out to be a disaster. Too many dragons, not enough humans. Security had escorted her out. Thankfully she still had her underwear on.

As a last resort, Niall wanted her to meet a representative from The Order of the Dragon Slayers, but he was afraid they would recruit her to use against rogue dragons. He sent out inquiries, but then decided to send her to Byron's bookstore instead. Byron was an elder dragon. Not quite Great Wyrm status, but long past adolescence. Niall assured her that Byron would be more interested in the Princess and the Goblin book, than her.

If they could get the Order's diary, Bianca could stay under the Order's radar. It supposedly been stolen from them and may have a record of her condition.  The book could have the cure inside it. She wouldn't get in trouble for possessing it because she was human. Byron and Niall had nothing to worry about, either. Sages like them were valued members of society, both dragon and human. The ODS only went after the man-eaters, and in this day and age they were few and far between. Or so the dragon society led you to believe.

"Can't you come with me?" she had asked Niall.

"It is not allowed." He was sympathetic, but resolute.

"Can I bring a friend?"

"He won't allow more than one human in his restricted area."

"Can't someone else go?"

Niall shook his head. "The less people know about your condition the better."

"What if he attacks me?"

"He won't."

Bianca wished she had Niall's confidence.

She could be cured.

She just needed to keep him at arms length.

Pushing open the door, Bianca paused in the doorway, blinking at the dim light. The scent of dragon musk tickled her nose and her knees trembled.

She saw him in the back corner of the store, but truthfully she sensed him first. A brooding, handsome man looked up at her in annoyance. Bianca let the door close behind her. It was too warm in here. She couldn't breathe. They stared at each other in the eerie quiet of the shop. His nostrils flared, and they locked gazes.

They were sitting in a lushly decorated salon with a roaring fire. Bryon sprawled on the settee, his cravat undone, and his wine untouched. Her consort filled her glass and she continued on with the story of Victor's creature.

The bell ringer from the Salvation Army across the street jolted her out of her reverie. She blinked, still seeing imposed over the bookstore the men at her feet, hanging on her every word.

Bianca swallowed, almost tasting the fine wine.

"I've brought you this. From Niall." She handed him Niall's scroll and the book, then scuttled back to the wide oak desk where the ancient cash register resided. She leaned against it, and forced herself take in the details of the bookstore to distract herself from the penetrating stare the dragon was still leveling at her.

It was clear Byron didn't want customers. Uninviting, the store was dark and the tomes on the shelves were in Latin. A cranky cat glared up at her from its perch next to the old style cash register. She didn't dare pet it for fear of losing a few fingers. Sliding off her heavy wool coat, Bianca hung it on a ramshackle coat rack watching it sway as it took the weight.

Unable to bear the weight of his gaze, she faced him again. The bookstore owner resembled his shop. In human guise, he sat in a threadbare Queen Anne chair, the same dull, moss green color as the curtains around the shop's window. Bianca wasn't sure if he really was Lord Byron or if he just took on the poet's name and resemblance. He dressed the part, in a mousy brown suit with a gold pocket watch tucked into his vest.

He hadn't jumped on her yet, but neither had he spoken. The worst part is for the first time, Bianca, felt an attraction back. Damned inconvenient. Sighing part in frustration and part longing, she pulled her curly brown hair off her neck and fanned herself. The imagined scene by the fire, faded.

"Do you want the book or not?" Fear made her snap the question at him. She didn't like feeling out of sorts.

Byron pulled his eyes from her to glance at the title. He did a double take. The scroll was forgotten as he pulled the book out of the protective sleeve. Verifying the date, he stared at the pictures. He was expressive for a dragon and she saw whimsy and nostalgia flash across his face before he remembered to clear it to a haughty impassiveness.

"It's a first edition," she said, her voice several degrees lower and with a husky note that had him glancing back up at her.

He nodded once, holding it to his chest. Then one-handed, he opened the scroll next. Bianca knew this dragon wouldn't risk insulting the Great Wyrm of Yale and after the reaction she just saw, he would never give up that book.  So her admittance into the old records was almost guaranteed. But would she find the cure she was looking for?

He looked over his glasses at the scroll, his strong jaw clenching and his dark eyes stormy. She watched him with a predatory desire that shook her with the depth of it. She wasn't a lust at first sight type of girl. If this was a hint of what the studs felt when they smelled her, she needed to figure out what was going on as soon as possible because she wanted to sit in Byron's lap and press kisses over his face. Glancing back at the door, she wondered if she should leave until the feeling passed. She could come back when he wasn't there. Get the book and go. The lust didn't feel temporary. It felt bone deep, as if she would never get enough.

He stood up abruptly, startling the cat. Even Bianca took a wary step back. He hadn't looked so big in the chair, but he loomed down over her she felt a little like a mouse about to be batted around by an ear-bitten tabby. He laid the children's book on the desk with an affectionate pat.

"Why didn't Niall send his assistant? The Carolyn girl?"

"He had things for her to do today."

Niall actually said, "I'm afraid Carolyn couldn't help herself in a place like Byron's. I might never see her again or he might eat her in a fit of pique for touching his beloved books."

"What's your name?"

Mary. Bianca almost said that name. Where had that come from? "Doesn't the scroll say?"

"I wanted to hear it from your lips."

"Bianca," she said, not sure if she was trying to convince him or her.

"And what do you want?"

You. Which was crazy. Bianca squelched that thought.

"The diary." She pointed a shaking finger at the scroll.

"Mmm hmmm," Bryon purred.

Bianca's knees went weak at the familiar sound.

They were in bed. The sheets were rumpled, the pillows askew. His teeth was on her throat. Her head was thrown back and she was clawing at his back, urging him on.

"Mary," he growled. "I love you madly."

"No words, my stud," she panted. "Let me feel the depth of your love instead."

"Are you all right?" Bryon put his hand on her arm.

Wrenched out of a daydream, Bianca felt her face flush. The symptoms must be getting worse. Instead of being dragon catnip, she was becoming dragon-struck. Soon, she would be one of those pathetic creatures so struck with the power and charisma of dragons, they devoted their lives to them as groupies, slaves, anything as long as they were allowed to bask in the dragon's presence.

"That's not me," Bianca said, her voice sounding odd to her ears.

"Are you sure?" Bryon asked.

Could he read her mind? Could he see her visions?

Bianca pulled out of his grasp. She could do this. Focus and concentrate. She'd get the book and leave. As soon as she hit the cool air outside, she'd be fine. She just had to hold it together for ten more minutes, tops. Bianca hoped it wasn't much longer than that.

"So you just graduated from Yale?" he mused, toying with the scroll.

Bianca was sure all of her credentials were there, so she just nodded. Her foot tapped and her fingers drummed on the counter. He needed to hurry.

"What does one do with an advanced degree in," he checked the paper, "ancient civilizations, with a concentration on dragon society and politics?"

"I'm looking to be a dragon ambassador." Something that could never happen if each dragon she met wanted to bend her over a board room table every time a liaison was needed.

"Why?"

"It's my dream come true."

"To be a bureaucrat?" Byron hitched his hip on the desk, and idly stroked the cat.

Bianca watched his long fingers, and swallowed past her dry throat. "Public service is a calling." Truth was, she had always been fascinated with dragons. It went beyond the teenage posters all over her walls. She toured all the five Queen's castles--even had a picture with Esmeralda, the Cuelebre of North America standing outside of her temple on the Mayan Riviera. She had felt at home there.

"So's the priesthood," he said.

"Were you a priest?"

He shook his head. "I like fucking too much to give a vow of chastity."

Bianca knew he wanted a reaction to his coarse language. But probably not this one. She dropped her gaze to his belt line and tilted her head. "I see." His eyes were smoldering into hers when she looked up.

"Do you?" He moved again and she barely restrained another start when he passed by her with a quick, animal grace. He turned the sign in the window to closed and locked the door. "Come with me. Don't touch anything."

"Focus and concentrate," she thought, controlling her breathing with a great effort. Bianca followed him to the center of the store. Her feet tingled as they passed over a protective circle. Damn it. She rubbed her hands down her sleeves. She hated magic. It scrambled her brains. Another daydream flashed in front of her eyes.

She was in the salon again. Byron and two other men at her feet. She was calling forth a blue sphere. Inside lightning arced.

She cackled, "And thus with alchemy and electricity, the creature came to life."

Byron waved his hand and the concealment spell dropped, the ozone scent, like smelling salts snapped Bianca back to the present. A trap door was in the floor. She watched the muscles on Byron's back strain as he pulled on the heavy iron ring. With a tortured squeak of swollen wood, the door came free. Byron muttered a light spell and a globe descended into the darkness.

"After you."

Bianca tamped down the feeling of panic and gingerly crept down the stairs. She was going underground, into a dragon's lair, probably where his hoard was kept. Visions of being ravaged on stacks of gold made her stumble and grip the railing tighter. The trap door protested again and was shut tightly above her head. Byron's footsteps were heavy on the stairs behind her. The first landing had her pausing to look over the side. The light ball continued down the stairs and she let it get enough ahead of her so her eyes could adjust. It didn't help. All she saw was blackness over the side rail.

They had run off in the dark, screaming in terror from her story. All but Byron.

"Can you believe them?" she laughed, cut off when he swooped her into his arms.

"Allow me to be your consort," Bryon said, kissing her throat and the tops of her breasts passionately.

"But Percy," she demurred.

"Shelley's a fool. Ran like a scared whelp into the night. Let me make love to you. I will be your consort, your protector. And you will be my world."

"Yes," she allowed, stroking her fingers through his silky hair as he ripped the dress from her body. "For tonight, I will allow you to pleasure me."

"I don't believe you would survive the fall," Byron's deep voice sounded in her ear. He trapped her against the rickety railing, a hand on either side of her. She could feel his body pressing against her with a strength and a heat she didn't want to find exciting. But she did.

"What is happening to me?" Bianca asked with the last bit of sanity she had left.

"Why don't you tell me why you're really here?" He pressed a burning kiss to the juncture of her neck and shoulder, even as his hand crept up to cup her breast.

Bianca froze, her eyes half closing in the sensual attack. She should step on his foot and slap his face. She ground her hips back into his hardness instead. His breath quickened and his hand slid up her dress. Leaning back into his embrace, Bianca sighed. She whimpered when he ripped the thin thong off her. He tongued circles over her neck and nipped her earlobe.

"Well?" he breathed.

She didn't want to talk. The madness of being this close to him in the dark was making her forget her true purpose. She needed the book. She needed to know what Niall had only hinted at. What if she wasn't just a freak groupie? What if she was Mary Shelley, author and dragon Queen reincarnated? The idea was so ridiculous that she laughed, cut off as his fingers dipped inside her.

"The scroll," she gasped out, trying to clamp down on her hormones instead of riding his fingers.

"Is bullshit." He tickled her pleasure slicked bud.

"Byron," she called out, hearing his name echo.

He removed his fingers, brought them to his mouth to taste.

"So is Niall's story about needing the Dragon Slayer book." He turned her around so she was in his arms, facing him.

"I need that book." She unbuttoned his vest, grabbed his shirt and ripped it open. Buttons flew everywhere and tinked down the stairs and off into the immeasurable darkness below. "But I need you too."

"Tell me what your angle is? I'm not the type of dragon the groupies go after."

Bianca gave a ragged laugh. The dragons Niall had her experiment with told her she wasn't the type of woman dragons allowed in their beds. Not beautiful enough. Not skilled enough. And not biddable enough.

"It's a condition. I don't understand it. Usually it's the studs coming on to me.  Niall sent me to you." Words were hard to get out. She concentrated on undoing his belt and whipping it off his waist with a flair that had him cupping her chin to look at him.

"How old are you?"

"Old enough," Bianca said.

"You're not a Queen."

Bianca stopped, shocked and looked up at him. "How do you know?"

"You're too old," he said.

Well, that was a dash of cold water. Suddenly, she felt silly standing there holding herself up by the remains of his shirt and the scraps of her dignity. She jerked her chin out of his hand and tried to breathe in air that wasn't clogged with dragon musk.

"Then why do I have her memories?"

"Who?" he asked, refusing to let her pull away.

"I think Mary Shelley."

"Niall sent you to me, knowing this?" The incredulous cry echoed in the darkness.

"He didn't know."

"The hell he didn't," Byron said. "You smell like her. I thought I was going insane."

"I never had visions before. Niall sent me here because dragon studs are attracted to me."

"Did you fuck them?" Byron gripped her hair tightly, forcing her to look up at him.

"It never got this far," she indicated their position with a thump on his shoulder.

"The younger studs couldn't control themselves around me. Niall assured me you were too old to be affected."

Bryon gave a husky laugh. "That old busy body. Did he send you here to seduce me?"

"No. I don't know what's going on. I've never felt this way before." Bianca rested her head on his chest.

"I bet you say that to all the boys." His hand clenched the back of her dress, as if he would rip it off her.

"I think I'm going insane," she pleaded. "I need that book."

"Then what?"

"I'm going to run like hell."

"You would steal from me?" His grip tightened and she was lifted up to her tip toes.

"No. I figured you trade it for the Princess and the Goblin book I gave you."

Byron shook his head. "Niall knew I would not let any book out of my horde. Not to a human. Not for a dragon. He had alternative motives, damn him."

"What motives?"

"You smell like my Queen." Bryon buried his nose in her hair. "It's been centuries since I breathed in her essence."

"Mary?" Bianca breathed.

"But you are human, not dragon. I see it in your aura," he said. "So must have Niall."

"There might be a cure for me in the Order's book," Bianca said.

"There is a cure, but you won't like it."

"You can stop the dragon studs from bothering me?"

"Yes." He looked down at her with hooded eyes.

"I'll do anything," she sighed, and meant it. Hoped for it, actually.

"You become my mate," he snarled and kissed her with a ferocity that blotted out reason.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Two

I had a dream, which was not all a dream

Byron delighted in having the eager woman press against him. Most dragon-struck women preferred the showier dragons with their riches on display or the politicians or rock stars. The dragon studs lived on adoration. Well most of them did. Byron lived for his books and a good cup of Bergamot tea. He deepened the kiss and felt her respond as if she needed his mouth more than she needed air. Perhaps she did. What a puzzle she was.

He had to find out the perfume she wore. He would buy the alchemist a factory and keep him in scents for the rest of his life. They'd bottle it and call it "Queen's Ransom" and sell it for a fortune. He chuckled against her neck. It had been a few decades since he had a woman in his arms and he found he wanted to experience the earthly pleasures again.

Bianca's curves pleased him as he smoothed his hands down the sweet line of her back. Breathing in deeply, Byron stifled a growl of possession. Niall must have known her scent would drive him to distraction. Why else would he send her to him? The book had to be a ruse to get him to settle down with a woman. His father kept going on about it wasn't good for a dragon to isolate himself from the humans.

"Please," she moaned, as he lifted his mouth to let her breathe.

She was luscious, Byron thought, holding her eager, squirming body hard against him. She could easily persuade him to take her on the stairs. Take her as his human mate. It had merit. They were obviously well suited physically. And her lifespan was short enough that if they weren't compatible intellectually, he could send her away with enough money to keep her comfortable. No other stud would dare debase himself stealing a human mate.

"Byron, I need this." She had his shirt off and was running her hands over the planed muscles of his arms and shoulders before he came back to his senses.

"I know, my sweet. But you need to make the choice when you aren't in the throes of lust." The pheromones they shared were blinding her to reality and he was in danger of losing his head as well.

"When will that be?"

"I can quell them for awhile," he assured her.

"I don't understand."

She sounded lost and it curbed his lust. It wasn't as if she was a real Queen. She was a very special human and he would treat her as such. "Come with me."

"I want to," she said.

He gave a soft laugh and held her hand while they caught up with the light ball.

"What do you mean become your mate? Dragons can't mate with humans." Her voice was breathy and she hurried to keep up with him. But she trusted him to lead her down the dark stairs, into the unknown. That was brave.

Byron couldn't shake the longing inside him for a Queen. Accepting a human mate seemed like giving up on his dreams for a family. But he had been waitlisted for hundreds of years now, not having the flash or the charisma to charm one of the bitch queens. At least Bianca smelled like a Queen. He was fortunate she smelled like his Queen. Bianca was too old to shift into a dragon and it was undeniable, she was pure human. He could feel how fragile she was as she clasped his hand like a lifeline. How easy it would be to crush her bones into dust. It was hard to keep that in mind when his senses screamed Queen.

"Not biologically, of course. But you would no longer desire any other stud by me and I would no longer desire any human but you."

"But what about the other studs?"

"Being claimed by me would quell their ardor." Or I will kill them, he amended silently.

"You've done this a lot?"

"Never," Byron said.

His father was a tricky wyrm. It was obvious, he wanted him to take the human as his mate. But Niall had a better chance of protecting her, if not with his reputation than with the sheer power of being a golden Celtic dragon. Byron resembled his mother, a purple Cuelebre. He had wings, but no claws. His weapons were his teeth and tail. He was a healer, rather than a fighter. The saliva in his glands could be used to cure any ailments.

But that hadn't helped his Queen.

Mary.

He couldn't bring the dead to life. His all-powerful saliva couldn't breathe for her or knit her throat back together. It couldn't refill her body with the blood she lost.

Byron relived the moment his beautiful white dragon Queen shuddered her last breath. He stopped on the stairs as agony hit him as if it was five minutes ago instead of one hundred and ninety-two years ago. 1824. She died and he left humanity as well. He had spent a century after her death in his dragon form in the mountains of Switzerland. It was only recently that he crossed over to America where no one knew him, and left him to his books.

"I'm not going to be able to stop myself from throwing myself at you if you don't hurry," Bianca said, and brought his fingers up to her mouth to suck and bite on.

The pain in his gut swelled, even as his cock perked up at her words. This human was not Mary reincarnated. She had pheromones that won her the jackpot in the genetic lottery. But she was also a little damaged, if she thought she was his Queen based on a few visions. If he was smart, he should give her the book and send her back to his father. Maybe there was something in there that would save her sanity and while it was a shame to lose her intoxicating scent, it would save him from having to bury another mate.

"Let's get this out of our system and then we can find that book," she said.

Nidhogg, she even sounded like Mary. Although, Mary would have just ordered him to pleasure her.

Bianca was tempting him and he tried to find the noble part of him, but it was fading away as fast as her inhibitions. They reached the basement apartments. The light globe rose to the ceiling and gave off enough light to put everything in soft shadows.

"So many books," she breathed.

"This will do in a pinch," Byron said and led her to the closest Corinthian column.

He pressed her back against it.

"Yes," Bianca said. "Right here. Right now."

He kissed her again, because she was sweet and willing and he wanted to. Her tongue was delightful and he was enjoying the feel of her writhing against him. Her hand pushed into his pants and gripped him.

"Want you," she moaned.

"Not like this," he said, kissing the corner of her mouth and gently removing her hand from his hard member. "Stay," he ordered and forced himself to walk away. He went to a shelving unit and dug around until he came up with a pair of handcuffs.

"You don't need to restrain me," she said in a quivering voice. "I'm not going anywhere." But she had followed him, away from the column.

"Don't be frightened." He guided her back, pulled her arms around the column, and handcuffed her to it.

Byron circled around to her front again. Underneath the wildness in her eyes, he saw Bianca trapped behind the veil of desire.  She wasn't completely herself, being driven by the dragon pheromones between them.  He called up on his magic and drew a circle of power in the air around the column. Then he stepped out of the circle.

"Show me what is real," he said.

Time compressed. The basement shimmered and a mirror into a time long past opened up. He thought he was prepared to see her face again, his Queen, his darling Mary. He sank to his knees. Bianca was transfixed at the image.

He compared the two women. There were no similarities. Bianca was Hispanic, with curly black hair and a generous figure. Mary's human form was a pale English rose, with hair spun of honey and eyes the lightest brown. Her mouth was a dark blackberry that Byron would taste for hours on end.

"This is Queen Mary," he said to Bianca.

In the mirror, his younger self walked alongside her brilliance. They were in Switzerland, enjoying the bright summer day. Her consort, Percy, was probably writing blasphemous poems in the tavern.

"Would you fly up and grab me that apple?" she said, pointing to the tallest branch and the reddest fruit in the tree.

Byron had manifested just his wings and hooking an arm around her waist flew them up and plucked it from the branch. He spiraled them lazily back to the ground, pleased he had made her blush and giggle.

"Is there anything else I can do for you, my Queen?" He slid her down his body, before setting her feet on the ground, so she would have no doubt what he was offering.

"You can read me a poem," she said, biting into her apple.

And he had. When Alexander Pope's Eloisa to Abelard's final lines faded and the Queen slid out of her gown, Byron had eagerly joined her under the apple tree.

"Show me Bianca's truth," Byron said, his voice hoarse.

A white dragon stared at him from the mirror.

"Mary," he cried, his heart breaking.

The dragon was chained in fire and thorns. It closed its eyes and slept. Bianca appeared. He saw her go to the university's classes, saw the dragon studs heads raise up to watch her. He watched her being stalked.

Then the mirror cracked and the spell shut down.

Bianca sank to her knees as the crushing lust was removed from her. Closing her eyes, she let her breathing regulate and when she got up enough nerve she looked up at Byron.

"What was that?" she said, as tears threatened.

Bryon was breathing hard through his nose. "I don't know."

Why am I chained?" Testing the handcuffs, Bianca winced as they tightened around her wrists.

"Some humans are resistant to dragon magic. If this hadn't worked, we would have done it the old fashion way."

"Done it?"

"Not exactly." He smirked, and then dragged over another Queen Anne's chair. "Let me tell you something you didn't learn about dragons in Yale."

"Can you uncuff me? It's a little weird to be chained up in front of you."

"If I cross the circle again, the spell will break and your visions will return and you will throw yourself at me."

"Why did you tie me up to begin with? I wasn't going to run away." Bianca had been content to keep kissing him and feeling the lust burn through her. It wasn't as bad as she remembered. She was almost disappointed they stopped.

"Do you have a mate?" What was the human term? "Or a boyfriend?"

"No." Bianca had been too weirded out by the dragon connection to date again after her last boyfriend left.

"So you are an innocent." Bryon tapped his lips. It pleased him he wouldn't have to kill anyone to claim her.

"I'm not a virgin." She felt herself blushing, but they might as well get that out of the way now. She hadn't slept with a stud, the few boys she had allowed in her life were more duds than studs. But she didn't feel the need to tell him that. That's all he needed to know was that he was the only one to light her fire, lately.

"That's not what I meant," he said.

"I haven't had sex with a dragon." Maybe she'd have been mated by now. Mated to a stranger. It didn't sit right with her.

"Good."

"Why is that good?" Because she hadn't, she was sitting here feeling a little frustrated, a little horny and more than a little irritable. And, she gave a yank on her hands again there wasn't anything she could do about it.

"Because I'll be the first and the last."

"I'm confused. You could have had me a few minutes ago."

"I could have had your body. I want you."

"Why me?" This was a weird conversation to be having with a dragon. The other studs had reacted with mild disgust, amusement and in some cases happy resignation. Byron had been the only one that seemed eager to go through with the act.

"Well, the old fashioned reason is my father gave you to me."

"He did not. Who's your father?" She thought about it. "Niall? Niall set me up?"

"Don't try to second guess the All Knowing," Byron said. "I could also say it was because you brought me back my favorite book as a child."

"You did those drawings?"

Byron nodded.

She thought that was really sweet. "They were very good.

He shrugged, "It was a child's distraction. But it started my love of books." He gestured around him. "It could be because now that you are in my lair among my possessions, I find I do not want to let you go. Is this the type of dragon lair you studied in Yale?

"I saw The Vault."

"In person?"

"No, just pictures."

Byron nodded. "I didn't think Fontaine still allowed visitors to his gold horde. Not since the Fort Knox incident." He stared at her like a man stared at a woman he wanted.

Bianca liked being at the end of that look.

"The reality is you smell like a Queen and I will never get one. You are the closest thing to a Queen I will ever have."

"That's it. That's your seduction speech?" She could almost hear the air being let out of her pride balloon, making a raspberry sound at her.

"I'm not trying to seduce you. If I were, I would tell you that I want to taste your caramel skin to see if you are as sweet as candy. I would like to spend hours in between your thighs making you scream my name. I would like to see you bounce on top of me with your glorious hair flying back and those ample breasts in my hands."

Bianca swallowed and felt desire stir that had nothing to do with being dragon-struck. She marveled at the feeling. "That's pretty good."

"I've had some time to practice. But when this circle spell fails." He trailed his finger above the ruins. "You won't need seduction. We'll be back to tearing each other's clothes off like we were on the stair. I'd like you to at least like me before I make you mine."

"Why?"

"I don't have to force beautiful women into my bed."

"It wouldn't be by force, but necessity." Bianca pointed out. "It's not like I'm not getting something out of it."

"I'd prefer you to think of it as fun."

"Why?"

"So you let me do it again." He smiled. "We will, after all, be bonded until your death. I'd like to get laid at least once more in the next eighty years."

"Couldn't we just have a one-night stand?"

"I would be happy to oblige, but it wouldn't solve your problem with having studs attracted to you. Only being my mate will do that."

Bianca shifted so she was seated on the floor and made herself comfortable. She was willing to hear him out. It was nice to talk with a dragon instead of being talked at. But she supposed she should get used to it when she became Smythe's dragon ambassador. Providing she could be cured. "How long will this spell last?" She tapped at the circle with her foot. It was nice to not have her head clouded. She felt normal for the first time in a long while.

"It depends on you. You're strong willed, so I don't think more than an hour or so."

"Then what?"

"If I haven't gained your approval to become my mate, I will pleasure you until you pass out and then we'll try again tomorrow."

Bianca blinked at his matter-of-fact tone. "Why do you want me to pass out?"

"The spell that's blocking the pheromones between us won't work twice in one day. So once I've exhausted you, you'll sleep and I'll recast the spell blocking the pheromones in the morning."

"So I'm a prisoner? I'm never leaving here unless I mate with you?" She struggled against the cuffs as panic flared.

Byron raised his eyebrows. "You're free to go at anytime. I can uncuff you now and you can leave."

"What about the Order of the Dragon Slayer book?"

"You cannot leave with the book. I do not part with things that are mine. My father knows that."

"Let me have the book and see if I can find a cure." She wouldn't think about how Niall had betrayed her. She was not a possession to give to his son.

"You want to waste all this 'getting to know you' time looking through a book written by a dragon slayer?"

"Yes."

"The spell will fade. And you will be begging me to fuck you against that column. The pheromones you and I have entangled together is overpowering. It's all I can do not to cross the circle and indulge us both. But my father was right, I am stronger than other studs. You are not a Dragon Queen, but you are so close, it's putting the studs into heat."

"Then why do I feel like I'm the one in heat?"

"You met a dragon that appealed to you." He spread his hands wide.

Bianca closed her eyes and groaned. Studs were so conceited. Unfortunately in his case, he was also right. "So I can become your mate and be cured or I can take my chances on that book to save my sanity?"

"Yes," he said.

"Then why do I feel what I saw in there was true?" She pointed to the mirror. "Was a memory? Why do I remember making love to you?"

Bryon's self-satisfied smile faded. "I do not know. I'm a powerful shaman. You might have just seen my longings and desires projected on that mirror."

Bianca pulled on her handcuffs. "Let me out."

Byron shrugged. "If I let you go, you'll go back to Niall with your pride intact, but still having the scent of a dragon Queen. Or I make you my mate. We can skip right to that, if you like."

"I'll take door number three. Get me the damn book."

"As you wish." Bryon unfolded himself from the chair and walked towards the stacks of books.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Three

Tis the time the heart should be unmoved

Bianca sat and waited while Byron went up and down shelving units, muttering to himself as he looked for the book. Apparently, it wasn't under "D" for Dragon Slayers. She rotated her wrists, but there was no way to get out of the cuffs. She wished he didn't trap her in the magical circle, but she could see his reasons.

The vision in the mirror haunted her. She remembered that day. She could taste that juicy apple. She could feel Byron inside her. What was wrong with her? Bianca didn't believe in reincarnation. People always thought they were famous people in past lives. No one was Madge the scullery maid. So not only did she believe she had been a Queen, she believed she was Mary Shelley. Bianca shook her head. It didn't ring true, but the only other explanation was it was Byron's dragon magic seducing her.

"Byron?" she called, hearing her voice echo back to her in the library's vastness.

"Yes, my love?"

"I'm frightened," she said.

"Has someone been telling you frightening stories of a monster seeking to destroy its creator?"

His arms encircled her from behind. She immediately felt comforted and a bit silly.

"This dread," she said. "I feel it stalking me, like a spectre."

"I am your protector, now that Percy is dead."

"It pains me we never found his murderer," she said.

"He got careless. Had you been with him, you might have been taken by the rogue studs."

"It makes no sense," she said, turning in his arms and clasping his face. "No one would hurt us. The humans love us too well."

"I do not know the rogue stud mind."

"I would have welcomed a few in my court," she said. "They didn't have to kill Percy."

Bryon tossed her over his shoulder. "Tiring of me in your bed already?"

She shrieked in laughter. "No my beloved, but we all have our duty. Come, do yours."

He tossed her on the bed.

"You called, my dear," Bryon approached the circle.

Bianca shook her head. The vision still in her mind. "What happened to Percy?"

"He was murdered. A pack of Queenless studs ambushed him and challenged him for his position as consort to Queen Mary. He lost. He managed to take a few of them out before he died. But at least one escaped."

"Where were you?" she asked.

"With the Queen. At the time I was her Protector."

"You were also her lover."

"I had that privilege. Why do you ask?"

"Does it hurt to talk about her?"

Byron looked away. "It used to. However, I find myself enjoying talking with you."

"I feel that we've known each other forever," Bianca said.

"That's the pheromones talking," Bryon checked the spell with a few incantations. "I should hurry and get that book."

How was she going to read the book if her arms were restrained?

The ceiling shook as a large WHOOMP sounded. Footsteps thundered above her and men's voices echoed down.

"What the hell is going on?" she screeched.

Byron strode out from the stacks and skin flaked away. His form shimmered and expanded. The winged serpent emerged, vibrant purple with strong bat like wings that rattled the bookshelves. Coil after coil wrapped around her circle as he flew up towards the trap door. A beep sounded and then an explosion rained debris down the stairs. Byron flinched back and then drove his head into the stairs, crushing them to splinters. Two men fell to their deaths. They're bodies exploded on impact and Bianca vomited at the sight. Two others rappelled down on ropes, as she was trying to get her heaving under control. She pulled on the pillar, but there was no way she could move it.

Byron snapped at the ropes and whipped his head. The two men went flying just as they were about to jump off the rope. They crashed into a bookshelf and then a pillar, before lying still.

"Are you all right?" he asked, turning to her. His serpentine head filled her vision. His eyes were the same, though larger. She could see his concern. She tried to nod.

"Byron, surrender or die," a voice boomed down from the top of the store.

"Who dares," he hissed.

"The Order of the Dragon Slayers. You have been accused of crimes against humanity."

"That is ridiculous."

"Says the dragon with the human chained in his lair."

"I can explain," Bianca shouted. "I'm here willingly." Of course, her argument might have held more weight if she hadn't been restrained. "We're doing a Fifty Shades thing," she tried anyway.

"We've come to save you. Now, are you going to come in peace for your trial, Byron, or do we burn this place down?"

Byron thought about it, but he eased back to the basement floor and turned back into human. "You'll have to come and get us. Your brutal attack on my establishment has taken out the stairs."

"We're coming down. If you kill any more of us, we will torch every book one by one while you watch."

"I understand. There is no need to threaten me. Be aware that I will be seeking retribution from your order for the damage and inconvenience you have caused me."

"You killed four men. You can shove your inconvenience up your scaly ass."

"You stormed my lair. You are in violation of the Treaty of 1099. I was defending my turf and will be exonerated. There are ways to go about things and you have not realized what you have done."

"Don't quote treaties to me. You have taken a virgin sacrifice."

"I am not a virgin!" Bianca screamed. And then in the uncomfortable silence said in a slightly lower tone of voice. "Not that it's any of your business. And I do not need to be rescued."

"Ma'am, we have a report that you are dragon-struck. You're not going to be allowed to testify for or against him because of that."

Byron looked lost in thought, but then turned in a dash and strode back into his stacks.

"Who the hell reported that?" Bianca snapped.

"We're coming down now." The man said, instead of answering.

By the time the three men got their ropes secured and were rappelling down, Byron came back holding a leather diary. He tossed it in the circle and then sat on his Queen Anne's chair to wait. The three men started towards him once their feet were on the ground. They were dressed like commandoes with armored clothing and Batman utility belts.

"Take the woman first. It's who you came for." He held up a hand and gestured. They freed her from her handcuffs with a key. The first thing she did was dive for the book. She met Byron's eyes as they walked her towards the ropes. The dragon lust nearly took her knees out from under her, and they steadied her so she stood upright.

"Are you okay, Miss?"

Bianca nodded. There were no words, only burning desire and tongues of regret. The desire she recognized, but she didn't understand the regret. He gave her the book. She got what she wanted. Why did she feel cheated that she didn't have more time with him? His eyes were on her and she couldn't look away.

"He's innocent," she said, as they helped her into a secured jacket that would allow them to hoist her up to the main floor.

"I'm sorry Ma'am. He needs to go on trial. Only a Queen could stop his arrest."

Byron shook his head.

"I came here at Niall's request. He told me to come here." Bianca tried to reason with them.

"Did he tell Byron, here, to cuff you to a pole?"

"It's all right, Bianca," Byron said.

Her name on his lips undid her. Tears flowed out of her eyes. She wanted to be his mate, even if that was only the dragon-struck part of her talking. These men had no business making that choice for her.

"I wasn't in any danger," she said, quietly.

"And how would you know that?" the commando said sarcastically, and checked the buckles by lifting the jacket up. When they held, he gave the thumbs up and she was pulled upwards.

"Because you'd have been too late, if he wanted to hurt me."

She was on the main floor in moments. Two other men unbuckled the vest and helped her into her coat. She shivered inside it and took long breaths. Slipping the diary inside her coat pocket, she tried again to make them see that she didn't need rescuing.

"There is a scroll here that will tell you that Niall sent me. There must be some kind of mistake. Byron is helping me with a problem I'm having."

"Come with us, ma'am."

Bianca's head unfogged by the time she was escorted into a blue SUV. A crowd had gathered from among the Christmas shoppers. A police line had been set up and there were a few people taking pictures from their camera phones. She ducked into the cowl of her coat and slid into the SUV. The sticky ache between her legs was bitter and she chafed against her dress. Byron should have taken her when he ripped her thong off. These bozos wouldn't have dared try to separate a dragon from his mate.

"Am I under arrest?" she snapped. The pounding in her head was deafening. She closed her eyes to the pain and gritty frustration that passed over her.

"No ma'am, but we're taking you to our headquarters for safekeeping. At least until the dragon is in protective custody."

"What if I don't want to go?"

"We have our orders to take you in. Joachim, he's our commanding officer, would like to speak to you."

"Well, I don't want to speak to him. So either you just let me off at the corner and I'll find my own way home or I will start kicking and screaming and making your lives a general hell."

"I don't want to restrain you ma'am."

"This is kidnapping. You're no better than what you're accusing Byron of."

They didn't answer her.

"Can Joachim read Latin?"

"You'll have to ask him."

Bianca tried a few more times to get specifics but she was rebuffed, politely, but stonewalled all the same. Short of jumping out of a moving vehicle and probably getting tasered in the process, there was nothing she could do but sit back and wait. It was about an hour when they hit the Massachusetts border and headed into downtown Springfield. They drove to an office compound that looked like it had been an insurance headquarters in another life. She was helped out of the SUV and escorted inside. When she looked up, she saw men with assault cannons on the roof and razor wire on the fencing.

Taking a deep breath in the lobby, she was relieved not to smell any dragons. It would have been unbearable to lose control again so soon. The elevator ride made her ears pop and the doors let out to a large penthouse suite. Fatigue crested over her and she longed to sag against the wall. But she was damned if she'd show these bozos any weakness.

"Joachim is in the receiving area. Have a good afternoon, Ma'am."

Bianca stumbled out of the elevator and stared at the guards until the elevator doors closed on them. She didn't even know what the heck a receiving area was, but she looked into the first room on the right and saw a large Hispanic man staring out into the sky.

"Looking for dragons?" Bianca said.

"Siempre," he said, turning to look at her. He was scarred and tough looking. "I am Joachim. Commander of The Order of Dragon Slayers. I am at your service and offer my protection." Unlike his commandoes, he was dressed casually.

"What do I need protection from? I was doing just fine until someone blew a hole in the bookstore I was in."

"I'm sorry for your inconvenience." He looked like someone her mother would have been thrilled if she brought him home for Sunday dinner. Mama liked them a little on the thug side.

His eyes grew unfocused as he glanced at her up and down. Then he blinked and rubbed his temples, letting out a large sigh.

"Inconvenience? Four men were killed," she cried. "It was awful. What on earth would be worth those men's deaths?"

"You, Bianca. You are a Queen. We had to rescue you and bring you back here. Once you emerged, it would have been war on the streets of Connecticut over you."

Well, that shut her up. She had spent the entire ride over here coming up with scathing threats and logical arguments and if that hadn't worked, she was going to beg.

"Byron said I wasn't."

"Bryon doesn't know everything."

"And you do?"

"You're not the first Queen I've seen who was about to shift. Can I get you a drink?"

"You sure as hell can," she said and walked into the suite area. She moved towards the window to scan the sky.

"Please," Joachim said, coming up behind her. "Stay away from the glass."

"Are you expecting an attack?"

"Siempre," he said again, and handed her a glass of water. "I have something stronger, if you would like? Wine, rum? I'll order us up some dinner. We have a lot to discuss." He handed her a menu.

She slapped it back at him. "How are you sure I'm a Queen?"

"You have a blue aura. All Queens do. It's a connection to the dragon weave."

"Niall said my aura was odd. He didn't say anything else. Look, Niall sent me to Byron. Byron is innocent."

A muscle worked in Joachim's jaw. "He held you there against your will."

"No, he didn't."

"You were handcuffed to a pillar inside a magical circle."

"And you couldn't possibly know that until you blew open the trap door. What would you have done if he had made me his mate?"

"We needed to get you out of there before he did."

"What's going to happen to him?"

Joachim reached into his pocket. "I must ask you a question. In Byron's lair did you see another Queen? A Chinese woman. Her name is Mei Hua." Joachim handed her a picture of a lovely, young woman with black pigtails and a seductive gleam in her eye.

"No, there was just me."

Joachim took with picture back with another labored sigh. "It was too much to hope." He slipped the picture back into his pocket.

"Did you think Bryon had her?"

"I hoped."

"I don't understand. Who is she?"

"She is the sixth dragon Queen."

Bianca shook her head. "That's impossible."

"Three years ago, she stood before me as you do now. So close to shifting, but still unable because of the curse."

"What curse?"

"The same one that has stopped you from shifting into a dragon at puberty."

"That was a long time ago," Bianca gave a self conscious laugh.

"Even longer, a group who calls themselves The Cult of Humanity captured a baby Queen and sacrificed her to fuel their spell that blocked Queens from hatching or shifting. The Order has been very protective of Queens since then."

"So I am Mary reincarnated." Bianca marveled. She was Byron's mate.

"Mary who?" Joachim asked, with a raised eyebrow.

"Never mind. It's complicated. Are you sure I'm a Queen?"

"I am. Have you noticed anything odd happening to you recently? For example Mei Hua manifested claws in time of stress."

"Odd? Yeah I'd say that. It's like I'm dragon catnip. Studs follow me around sniffing and Byron and I...connected."

Joachim nodded. "I'm glad we were able to find you so quickly.  It's very rare we find a Queen in time to save her."

Bianca took a sip of water. This was bizarre. "Well, now that you know Byron wasn't holding me or Mei Hua against our wills, are you going to let him go?"

"After you've made your decision and we've seen this through, I will release him unharmed-- providing he doesn't kill any more of my men."

"What exactly are we seeing through?" Bianca asked.

"Do you want to be a dragon Queen?"

"I've never thought of it. But it doesn't matter. You just said I was one."

"The dragon race is cursed. As I said, they pissed off a very powerful cult that inflicted a holding pattern into the yin weave of dragon magic. As the female dragons died, no new ones replaced them. That is why there are only five left. But in the past decade, the Order has seen women with auras like yours. We search the globe for them."

"Well, you found me," Bianca said. "Now what?"

"I'm going to give you a choice. I can slice away your aura. That blue haze that I can see and Niall can sense. You will no longer be a dragon."

"I'm not a dragon." Bianca looked down at herself. "I'm human."

"You would have shifted to be a Queen at puberty. Now you are stuck."

"Does the slicing thing hurt?"

"Yes," Joachim said.

Bianca searched his face. "Are we talking stubbing your toe type of hurt?"

"Root canal without anesthesia."

She shuddered. "And the other choice would be?"

"I do a ritual with my fellow members of the Order and suppress the curse long enough for you to shift."

"And then what happens?"

"You become a Queen."

"Teeth, tails and wings?"

He nodded. "Maybe not wings. It depends on what type of dragon you are."

"What type of dragon am I?"

"I do not have that knowledge."

"Does it hurt?"

"Yes," Joachim said.

"On the toenail/root canal scale, where would that pain lie?"

"Again, the root canal."

"Great." Bianca finished the water in one gulp and set the glass down. She should have held out for the rum. "What if I choose to do nothing?"

"Your manifestations will grow worse and drive you insane. You'll either suicide or go catatonic."

"That's just happy news all around. Would a manifestation be something as weird as being dragon-struck?"

Joachim nodded. "It would be more serious than dragon-struck. You would be compelled to . . ." he shifted uncomfortably, "be friendly to dragon studs."

"Oh dear," she said. "I'm manifesting."

"That's why we had to find you. Niall had mentioned your case, but refused to provide details. Luckily, I have a spy on campus."

"Byron offered another alternative."

"I bet he did."

Bianca reached into her pocket and pulled out the diary. "Can you read Latin?"

Joachim took it from her. "Where did you get this?"

"I was told there could be a cure for my ... ailment in there."

"This was stolen from our archives centuries ago." He pointed to a mark on the cover. "This brand is from our library in Vatican City."

"I didn't steal it. Can you read what it says?"

"I can't. But I know someone who can. I'll be right back." Joachim left the room.

Bianca wasn't sure if she was making a mistake trusting him. But she didn't have a lot of choices. Walking around the room, she noticed the artwork on the walls leaned towards the slaying of dragons rather than the saving of them. If she was a dragon, would they kill her?

"Tell me about Mei Hua," she said when Joachim came back.

"I ordered dinner for us. I'm hoping you like pollo guisado?"

"You got my grandmother in the kitchen?" Bianca quirked an eyebrow.

"My mother," he said.

"I'm in. Let's talk Queens." She sat back down on the couch and got comfortable.

"Mei Hua chose the ritual. We found her in an orphanage in China. Unshifted Queens with auras like you have are very rare. Our primary purpose is to find them."

"Then why are you called Dragon Slayers instead of Queen Finders?"

"We already paid for the logo and the stationary?  Joachim gave a rueful grin. "No, we don't kill many dragons. They don't give us reason to since the Treaty of 1099. But they should never forget we are watching."

"How can you kill a dragon? I've seen one take a hit from a tank shell. It was badly wounded, but still alive."

Joachim pointed to the weapons on the wall. There was a trident, a pike, and several sabers. "The weapons are magical."

"So if the dragons steal those weapons, you are powerless."

"I will need to keep some secrets from you, Bianca." He laid a hand on his heart.

"So Mei Hua was like me, and she chose to be a dragon."

"She wanted to be powerful. She wanted to fly." Joachim's face was pained, his eyes haunted.

"What happened?"

"Our security was compromised," he said. "They took her." His jaw tightened.

"Who took her?"

"A team of rogue studs."

"Rogue studs?" Bianca's mind went to Percy.

"We've been unable to track them down. I don't know who they worked for or how they breached our defenses."

"Did they kill her?"

Joachim shook his head slowly. The sadness in his eyes made her own heart hurt. "A Queen is too valuable to kill. She is the only means of keeping the dragon race alive. They took her and are holding her somewhere out of our reach. They are impregnating her and no doubt forcing her to be a brood mother for them."

"That's awful," she said, her stomach no longer wanting the chicken stew.

"We can protect you, but you wouldn't be able to leave this compound or our protection until you had a defensible castle and a court of studs to protect you."

"That's not me," Bianca said. "I'm a corporate girl. I want to be one of the movers and shakers. I've got a job lined up at Smythe for next year."

"As a Queen the world would move and shake for you." Joachim scratched the stubble of his beard on his chin. "Smythe would need to beef up his security, but if you named him protector he'd have adequate funds to support you. Personally, I don't like him. But I seldom like the younger studs."

"But I wouldn't be a dragon liaison. What would I do?"

"You'd be his Queen."

"What does that mean?"

"It means in return for having his children he will protect you from any stud you didn't wish to have children with."

"Whoa! I don't even know Smythe. I didn't even interview with him."

"Then you can't leave here without protection otherwise we risk losing you like we did Mei Hua."

"That seriously sucks. What about Byron?"

Joachim shook his head. "He has no defenses. We would have lost more men storming any other dragon's lair. And in the end, he gave you up to protect his books."

"He did." Bianca was ridiculously hurt by that. She looked down at her nails and wondered what it would be like to sprout claws. Turning her head to stare out the window, she tried to picture flying off into the clouds. Then being kidnapped and forced to be not only a sex slave, but a brood mother. Jumping to her feet, she paced around the room.

"So if I choose door number two and you cut the aura off me, I can go back to my human life? No problems?" Would she still remember Mary and her court?

"It will be painful. I'm essentially going to cut your soul into two and rip it the dragon half from your body."

Bianca winced. Joachim didn't sugar coat things, that's for sure.

"You'll have nightmares, but eventually you should be able to have a normal life. With the exception that you won't be able to stand to be in a dragon's presence. It would make you violently ill."

Four years of college and another eight years of post graduate work down the shitter.

There had to be another way.

"Who did you give the book to?" Bianca asked. Because if that turned up a dead end, she would consider Byron. She'd still be the person she always was with the exception she'd have a dragon lover. It sure beat root canal without pain killers and life changing decisions.

"One of our monks."

"How long is it going to take?"

"I'll have an answer for you by morning."

"Can I trust you, Joachim?"

"I will guard your secret. You have my word of honor." He placed his hand over his heart.

"Can I go home?"

"I would rather you enjoy our hospitality and my mother's cooking and spend the night here. I don't trust what the dragons might do. I have a Queen's suite set up with all the modern conveniences. Anything you could possibly want will be delivered to you."

"Do you have an X-Station?" Bianca asked, naming the new game console on the market. It was sold out and there were going to be a lot of disappointed kids for Christmas this year.

"With Dragon World 4." Joachim grinned unabashedly.

"You make sure my brother gets that under the tree and I'll stay until the journal is translated."

"Spoken like a true Queen."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Four

For the Angel of Death spread his wings on the blast

Joachim's mother cooked a mean chicken, but Bianca's abuela was still number one in the kitchen. Still, she had two helpings and half a bottle of wine. If the Order of Dragon Slayers were trying to poison her, she would die happy.

The Queen's Suite was opulent and easily bigger than every apartment she ever lived in. But there were no windows. And two burly guards were placed outside her door. Bird in a gilded cage came to mind. She was allowed to use the phone and checked in with her parents just to say hello. Joachim said he'd send someone over to her place to feed the cat, so at least Fluffy wouldn't be lonely. There was nothing on cable and none of the movies on the On Demand menu interested her. She played a few rounds of Dragon World 4, but her heart wasn't in it. It wasn't any fun without her brother. Bianca was considering asking if either of the guards played, when there were two ominous thumps and the door knob rattled.

She looked around for a weapon, settled on the lamp and positioned herself behind the door, so when it opened she could spring an attack. If a rogue stud was looking to get lucky, she'd bean him before his hormones could overtake his senses. Sure enough, the door unlocked and she was hit with the delicious aroma of male dragon. Winding up to swing, she halted when she heard, "Bianca? Are you hurt?"

"Byron?" She moved around, surprised to see him standing there. He was unharmed.

"Thank Nidhogg, you're all right. Let's get you out of here."

"I'm a liability," she said. "We'll get half way out and I'll be naked and trying to hump your leg."

He dragged the two guards in and relocked the door. "Solution two."

"Did you kill them?" she asked, horror briefly overshadowing the lust.

"They are unconscious."

Bianca was in his arms, kissing him. She had missed the feel of his arms around her. He had put on a T-shirt that she was stripping off him.

"Mi Reina," he crooned to her in Spanish.

"You said," she panted between kisses. "That I was too old to be a Queen."

"I don't care. I could think of nothing else but making you my mate while we were parted. Come with me and be my love."

"That was Marlowe not Byron."

"Marlowe," he said, tilting her head so he could lavish, hard sucking kisses on her neck. "Was a hack."

Her hands were on his belt again. "How do I know these feelings are real?"

"You want me," he said.

"Oh yes," she said.

"I want you."

"Yes," she breathed.

"It's real." He backed her towards the bed. "I want you out of this dress."

"Wait." She managed to hold on to her hormones to get out the question. "I want to know what that book says before you make me your mate."

"I'm not making you my mate right now."

"You're not?" Again, she felt that odd hurt. What the hell was wrong with her?

"There's not enough time to do it properly." He took the hem of her dress and lifted it over her head. She had barely enough time to lift her arms. Her bra was snatched off next.

"Oh, sweet, sweet Bianca." Bryon clasped her breasts in his hands, thumbing her nipples until her eyes glazed over. "You are perfect."

She went willingly, eagerly when he pressed her back to the bed. Spreading her legs, Bianca wiggled trying to trap the hot, heavy length of him.

"Tease," he growled and ground his mouth down on hers. She went wild, clasping him to her. Their tongues battled, until he broke away cursing in draconic. "We don't have time to do this right, but you will be back in your right mind shortly."

She clung to him as he kissed down her body, stopping to suckle hard at each throbbing tip of her breasts.

"Byron," she cried, writing at tongues of ecstasy flamed up her body until all she could picture was him driving hard and fast inside her. "Fuck me."

His hands gripped the sheets by her hips in tight white knuckled fists. "I'll give you no cause to regret this." Nipping down her sides to her belly button, he flicked his tongue around the indent.

"Please," she whispered. "I want you so."

Then his face was at the juncture of her thighs and white light blinded her at the sheer pleasure of his mouth moving against her intimately. He laved the pulsing bud at the core of her desire, circling the swollen and needy bit until she didn't recognize the sounds coming out of her mouth.

His groans resembled a dragon's growl--primal, guttural, and possessive. "It's time, my sweet Bianca, before I lose all control and take you like a stud with his first woman."

"Do it," she screamed.

His fingers instead of that hard, thick shaft she could sense penetrated her and her shoulders hit the bed, as her hips flung up to meet him. His tongue went back to her bud and lapped her until she forgot English, forgot Spanish and just lived in the sweet, hot moment of his rhythm.

Mine.

She wasn't sure if that was him or her. Uncoiling from deep within her womb, Bianca sensed herself awakening. She got an image of a scaled head, white as mashed potatoes if they glittered with the brightness of a thousand suns. It yawned, showing large teeth. It grunted in approval and for a moment Bianca was poised on greatness. But a giant hand slapped it away and she screamed as orgasm hit her, but the dragon faded with a confused air.

Flinching and shuddering, Bianca cried out again at loss and pleasure shook through her. She entangled herself around Byron. He soothed her with kisses and caresses, but his hardness poked against her belly and the desire rose again.

"What happened, Bianca?" he asked, tipping her head up to look at him.

"It didn't work," she said.

"What do you mean?"

"I still want you." She arched and rubbed against him.

He kissed the tip of her nose and disengaged. She got up on all fours and watched him walk. He was gloriously naked. She didn't remember him losing his clothes, but she liked the lean hard muscles, and of course, the thick member pressing against his stomach. Gathering up his clothes, he tossed the dress at her.

"I still want you too. But we need to get out of here before Joachim and his dolts realize their trap for me, was a greater one for them."

Bianca sat back on the bed. The lust was still there. It brimmed in her core, but it waited, like the white dragon she pictured before that orgasm tore through her like a hurricane. Sliding the dress over her head, though, she realized she was in control of her emotions.

"I need my bra."

"No, you don't."

"Ever since I was fourteen. Now, give it to me."

He picked it up. "This?"

She held out her hand.

He tore it in two.

"That was my favorite bra."

"I'll buy you another one." He slid on his slacks and the T-shirt, looking around for his shoes. "I'm going to rip that damn dress off you the first chance I get."

She stood up and tossed them at him, sitting back on the bed to put her flats on. "Where are we going?"

"To my lair, where you will not need tedious things like clothes."

"That's the first place they'll look. You saw how easy it was to break into the bookstore."

"The bookstore isn't my lair. Now, let's go." Byron held out his hand to her.

He held out his hand to her. "You must come with me. You are in danger."

Mary turned from the window. "Now, you believe me?"

"This isn't some random spectre of your imaginations. Your creature--this is that horrid stud Dante you've welcomed into your bed."

"This isn't about Dante," she said. "This is about your jealousy. You cannot have me every night. I have a duty to our race."

"He will hurt you."

"He has no need to hurt me. I give him access to immortality." Mary twisted her lips and flicked up her skirt.

"Listen to me," Bryon gripped her upper arms. "I will not have you vulnerable."

"You forget yourself," she said, white lipped and in a fury. "Remove your hands from my person. I do not wish you in my bedchambers until I summon you."

"I am not one of your pretty boys to be banished at your whim. I am your consort. Your protector."

"You serve at my whim. Your jealousy is displeasing to me."

They were shouting at each other. She did not want to fight with him. But she was so sick of his demands.

"Mary, I love you."

"I love you," she said, "But right now, I'm so very angry at you."

Bianca was halfway to the door when her vision cleared and she came back to the present. "Wait," she said, digging in her heels. It was hard to think. Hard to separate past from present. "I gave the diary to Joachim."

Byron cursed. "Why would you do that?"

"Because I can't read Latin."

"It doesn't matter. You're going to be my mate, right?"

"I don't know," she said. "It depends on what the book says."

"What?" He dropped her hand.

"If all I have to do is drink a potion of eye of newt or something, then I think that's the better choice."  It was certainly better than Joachim's root canal choices. Being human and unable to stand dragons. Or being a dragon and being in danger like Mei Hua.

She crossed her arms over her breasts which still bore the mark of his teeth and the graze of his beard. She shifted as a wave of heat tickled between her thighs again. "Besides, I don't think this solution number two of yours is going to last as long as the circle. I'm going to be dragon-struck again before I can get away from you."

"What are you saying? I'm here to rescue you."

"I don't need rescuing."

But she did. The attack was vicious and unexpected. Her throat was gone before she could call out. Her heart was ripped out and shredded on the courtyard.

Byron.

"What is it?" Bryon said, touching her cheek.

Bianca shrieked and fell back. "How did Mary die?"

His face turned away. "She was attacked. I was no longer her protector or consort. We had fought. By the time I got there it was too late."

"Did you kill her?" she whispered.

"How could you say that to me?" He glared at her.

"Her last thought was your name." Bianca sank to the floor, hand to her throat. She could feel the blood draining out of her body weakening her.

"How would you know that?" Bryon yanked her to her feet.

"I was her."

"You are human."

"Joachim said I am a Queen." Bianca's lips felt numb. She sank back down on the bed.

Bryon glared at her. "I don't know what game the Dragon Slayer is playing with you, but I assure you, that you are no Queen and you are certainly not my Mary."

"I know what I saw."

"You're wrong." He pulled her off the bed. "But it doesn't matter. I'm willing to make you my human mate. It solves your problem and it pleases me to touch you."

Struggling out of his arms, Bianca tried to make him understand. "I believe Joachim. I know things I shouldn't. I feel things I shouldn't."

"You're crazy."

They were shouting at each other again. She didn't want to fight with him. But she was so sick of his demands.

"Leave with me now," he gritted out.

"I promised I'd stay until morning." Bianca's head was swimming. He didn't believe her. She wasn't sure she believed him.

"Promised who? Joachim? Is he your lover?"

His possessiveness, his demands. It was too much.

"Do you know what I risked to get here for you?" he snarled.

"I'm sorry," she said. "I'm glad you're not hurt."

He gave a humorless laugh. "So what if the cure is something as easy as taking two aspirin and lying down until the feeling goes away? Where does that leave us?"

"There isn't an 'us'. We met hours ago. As you said, I'm human. You're a dragon. Our worlds will never collide again." Her heart was breaking.

"I have loved you from the moment you first walked into my life. Your beauty, your intelligence, has humbled me. I am yours. Whatever scraps you give me, I will gladly take," he had said that on bended knees to her.

"You lied," she whispered. Bryon had wanted more.

"What if I want our worlds to collide?" he asked.

"Why? You believe I am only human. I am not your Queen."

But, I am.

"You and I have something special. Even after a few hours I can sense that."

"What? You want to date?" Bianca would find this whole thing funny, if it wasn't so tragic. "I am the Queen you lost."

"The moment my cock is inside you, you are my mate." He didn't acknowledge her other words.

"Why can't you believe I'm Queen Mary, reincarnated?"

"I cannot believe that. But I will make you mine. I don't care who you think you are. You're mine now."

The word almost brought her to her knees. The thought of having a consort and a protector was dizzying, but if she remained human she didn't have to worry about being a Queen. "You need to believe me first. Otherwise it's just sex."

"Just sex?" He looked up at the ceiling as if the answer to the universe was up there. "That was just sex?" He pointed to the bed. She followed his finger but had no answer. "I made a mistake," he said.

No.

"I apologize for disturbing you."

Wait.

"Should you require a stud's service, perhaps my father can introduce you to my brother, Reed." He turned on his heel and left her alone, barely restraining himself from slamming the door.

She stood there, staring at the door until the guards started to come around. Because even after the dragon musk had left, even as her pulse slowed, the biting need was still there. Was her situation getting worse? Or did the desire for Byron exist beyond the dragon-struck lust and she just made the worse mistake of her life.

Joachim was apoplectic, but she answered his questions in a monotone.

"Did he hurt you?"

"No."

"Why didn't he take you?"

"I told him I needed to know what the diary said."

"You didn't tell him anything else did you? About the Order or Mei Hua?"

"No."

"Are you sure?"

"Yes."

"He let you stay here?"

"Yes."

"You know he could have taken you by force."

"Yes." Bianca's limbs were now starting to feel numb. The sweet sensation of Byron's body on hers was beginning to fade. "Any luck on the diary?" she asked.

"Leone is still translating it. So far it talks about the stud behavior when a Queen is in heat. Suffice it to say it's rather blood thirsty. If there is a way to mute the heat, we haven't found it yet."

"You'll let me know?"

"Of course. I'll give you a full report over breakfast. Sleep well, my dear." He gave her a chaste kiss on her cheek and it was all she could do to stop herself from ripping his throat out.

Joachim gave her a quizzical look, as if he sensed the thought.

"Good night," she said.

Bianca slept fitfully in the big comfortable bed. She dreamed Byron was lying next to her and when she went to reach for him, she woke up and he was gone. Did he lie to her? Were they already mated? The only way she could test that was if she ran into another dragon and what were the chances of that deep within the Order of Dragon Slayers headquarters.

A maid knocked on the door around eight o'clock to ask if she needed anything.

"Is there anyway, I can get a change of clothes?"

"Of course." She curtsied.

Bianca decided to take a shower and when she came out a new set of underwear was folded on top of a pair of faded jeans and a sweater in her size. Thick cotton socks and a new pair of Chuck's were on the floor next to them.

"That's a little creepy," she said. But the jeans fit perfectly, so she didn't have any other complaints. Feeling a little more like herself, Bianca went in search of coffee. Her body guards, if that's what they were, followed her to the elevator. They were not the same two from last night.

"Joachim is expecting you," one of them said, pressing the button. They left her at the receiving area again and she found Joachim already seated at a table. It was set with flowers, good china and heaping piles of food.

"Good morning, did you sleep well?"

"No. What did the diary say?"

"Eat your breakfast and I'll let you read it for yourself."

Bianca filled up her plate and ate hungrily, pausing only to gulp down two cups of coffee. Joachim watched in amusement for a bit before going back to the tablet he was working on.

"Who killed Mary Shelley?"

"Why do you think we would know?" Joachim asked.

"Because you know everything. Was it the same rogue that killed Percy?"

Joachim put down his tablet. "Where is this coming from?"

"Humor me."

"Did Byron mention Mary?"

"Something like that. Did you suspect him of killing her?" Bianca poured herself a third cup and barely tasted it as she hung on Joachim's every word.

"No," Joachim shook his head. "He was devastated. He nearly died of grief."

The coffee stuck in her throat as it tightened in sympathy.

"So it was a stud?"

"It's a bit more complicated than that."

"Of course it is."

"Percy was a consort of another Queen. Harriet. He left her court and took up with Mary."

"I didn't know that," Bianca said.

"It wasn't common knowledge. Queens have been known to kill for less than that insult."

"Harriet killed him?"

Joachim nodded. "Queens order studs deaths all the time. As long as no humans are involved, we don't interfere. Besides, Harriet was already dead at that time. When Mary fell, we assumed we had another Queen killer on our hands."

"So who was it?" Bianca searched her brain. "Was it Dante?"

"Dante?" Joachim stared at her. "Senator Dante?"

"I have no idea." She shrugged.

"No, it was a stud whose name I've forgotten. Harriet had put out a contract on Percy and the stud decided to go the extra step and take out Mary as well."

"Why?"

"Harriet thought that killing Percy was justice. But, she went into the weave in grief after his death. The stud, who was in love with her, retaliated at the loss of his Queen by killing Mary."

It sounded like a story Mary or Percy would have written, romance, lies, betrayal. "What do you mean, Harriet went into the weave?"

"She committed suicide."

"That's awful," Bianca gasped. "What happened to the killer?"

"He was executed after being drawn and quartered."

"Sorry I asked." The coffee rolled around in her stomach and threatened to come up, but she was starving for some reason and forced herself to think of something else until her insides settled down.

"Are you ready for the diary's contents then?" Joachim asked solicitously.

After she popped the last bit of jellied toast in her mouth, Bianca poured herself another cup of coffee and sat back in her chair. "Okay, hit me."

He handed her the tablet. "The left column is the original Latin and the right column is Leone's translation. I highlighted the relevant portions."

Bianca flipped through it. The gist was the heat could be suppressed. The bad news is she'd have to drink dragon's blood. She tossed the tablet on the table.

"So what does dragon's blood taste like?"

"You tell me. You just drank three cups of it."

Breakfast threatened to come up again. Bianca gripped the table as she made a mental inventory of tastes. She tried to tell her stomach that there was nothing out of the ordinary in there. It was listening for the moment.

"Is this some kind of a joke?" Bianca stared at the fourth cup as if it was going to bubble or coagulate.

"I thought you would be pleased. There's no need for the surgery and as long as you can keep up with your daily dose, you won't feel the side effects."

"You turned me into a vampire," she said. "Where am I supposed to get enough dragon blood on a daily basis? I'm pretty sure the Red Cross doesn't do blood drives and I'm not about to take it from the source. Whose blood was that anyway?" Bianca realized her voice was becoming hysterically shrill with each question.

Joachim opened his mouth to answer, but she interrupted him.

"How did you have this just lying around? Is Byron all right? Did you hurt him?" She rose up from the table, the white dragon in her body roared. The sound was deafening and she staggered.

Joachim rose up. "Are you ill?"

"Where's Byron?" She wiped her brow with her hand.

"I don't know. He escaped us."

"Whose blood is this?" she demanded.

"We don't keep track."

"So it's either drinking dragon blood or going under the knife?"

"That's right."

There had been another option. But it was too late for that now.

"I don't have access to dragon's blood on a daily basis," Bianca said, wrapping her arms around herself. She would not panic.  She would not puke. "This is just a temporary fix."

"We have a supply," Joachim said. "And we're willing to provide it to you, discreetly of course."

"What do you want in return?" Nothing was free. Even for a so-called Queen.

"We don't have a spy in Smythe Industries. There have been whispers that he's into something that might violate the Treaty of 1099."

"What do you want me to do?"

"Nothing out of the ordinary. Do your job. Keep your eyes and ears open and if you get a hint of something you think we may need to know, contact me." He handed her back the tablet. "Take this, with my compliments. You'll get a six-pack of coffee drinks every Monday."

"There are seven days in a week," she said.

"Make sure to avoid a dragon on the day you don't have a drink. Or stockpile them. I can't give you more than six a week."

"Why?"

"Seven is a magical number. I'm not sure what seven doses in one week would do to you. The dragon blood will suppress your change and all of the pheromones your body is emitting. You will be able to live a normal, human life."

"This is crazy," she said.

"This is your solution. You get to keep your life and your symptoms of being dragon catnip go away. However, you must never tell anyone what you learned here or what your cure was."

"Seems to me, keeping dragon blood or obtaining it also violates the Treaty of 1099."

"I assure you, the Order of the Dragon Slayers follows the Treaty to the letter--if not in spirit."

Spy or Queen?

Bianca took the six pack with as much grace as she could manage.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Five

There was a sound of revelry by night

Her brother Juanito loved the X-Station and she was the world's best sister. Bianca went by Byron's bookstore, on Christmas Eve, but it was empty. Not even a trace of dragon musk remained, if she could even still sense it after drinking her dragon blood--which tasted just like a Starbucks Mocha. She wouldn't return Niall's calls. She was pissed that he played her.

But she looked for Byron. It was if he had taken wing and was hiding in Switzerland again. Bianca was resigned, though. She made her choice. She would remain as she was. Half human, half reincarnated dragon Queen-- even if the only one who mattered wouldn't believe her.

It was no surprise that Smythe's Industries were very happy to have her start a week early. On her first day, Bianca deliberately didn't take the blood. She kept it in her purse. But as soon as she entered the building, a dragon in a nice suit stopped the elevator and unhearing of protests from his staff, made a beeline to her. The security guard's double take gave her a few moments to guzzle the drink down unseen.

"Is it hot in here?" Bianca asked, tossing the empty bottle in the trash.

The dragon blinked, sniffed, and then shook his head. He walked back to the elevator without a word or an explanation.

By the time her badge was ready, she sensed nothing and no dragon gave her a second glance. Joachim was good to his word. The two weeks of training were mind numbingly dull. The only bright spot was Smythe's admin assistant. Viola was funny and didn't take Smythe seriously at all, which was a relief because the rest of the staff thought the sun rose and set on his shiny black scales.

She met him briefly. He nodded at her in passing and called her Bee. From that point on, so did everyone else. Bianca checked in with Joachim once a week. She didn't have much to tell him, but after each phone call a six pack was delivered to her apartment.

After a month, Bianca decided not to take the drinks on the weekend.  She wanted a stockpile in case she had to make a tough decision and tell the Order to go stuff themselves. In her second month, she had her first liaison meeting. She would be negotiating the buyout of a local vitamin store. Joachim was interested in the transaction, but Bianca didn't see anything out of the ordinary. It was a Mom and Pop store and they were looking to retire. Mom and Pop Carter were very excited to meet with a real dragon. She didn't have the heart to tell them, Smythe wouldn't show up.

"So, Mr. Smythe just needs you to sign these papers and I can give you the cashier's check," Bianca said.

Mom looked at Pop. "We were hoping to speak with him personally."

"I'm sorry, but Mr. Smythe is on an international call right now and is very busy today."

"We'll wait," Pop said.

"Is there a problem with the buyout amount? I'm authorized to go five percent over the agreed on price, but you would need to sign immediately."

Mom snorted. "That other dragon offered us double."

"What other dragon?" Bianca said. Dread filled her. Smythe was going to freak. And when the boss wasn't happy no one was happy. She'd probably be taking her drink this weekend because she sure as hell was going to be in the office investigating this fiasco.

"Mr. Byron. He gave us a message that only goes to Mr. Smythe."

"Give it to me," Bianca snarled before she realized her tone was unprofessional.

Mom and Pop didn't look offended. "Unless you can read that symbol writing of theirs, it won't help. Best let him know dearie," Mom said. "We're not going anywhere and neither is this deal until he gets this."

"Great," she said. "I'll be right back." She should have offered them coffee or lunch, but she was too agitated to be smooth and suave. She wanted to kill someone. No. She wanted to kill Byron. That churning in her stomach wasn't eagerness. It wasn't a stir of desire. It was sheer pissed-offness.

"Whoa," Viola said as Bianca stormed into her cube. "What's the dealio?"

"Another dragon named Byron counter offered. They have a message for Smythe's eyes only."

"Crap. Okay. I'll handle it. You just get back in there with the Carters and keep them happy. I'll get Smythe in there as soon as possible."

"You sure?"

"It's my job. That's why I get paid the big bucks." Viola's sarcasm was a balm to Bianca's nerves.

"I owe you one."

"Yes, you do."

Bianca wound up ordering lunch from the deli across town for the Carters, so the room smelled like garlic pickles and potato salad when Smythe stormed in.

"You have a letter for me?" Smythe snatched it from Pop's hand. They stared at him like he was a god come down from Olympus. Truthfully, Bianca didn't see it. Or maybe she drank dragon's blood so she wouldn't have to.

Smythe scanned it. "Fine," he said. "Now sign."

The Carters scrambled for the documents.

"Cut them a check for double the amount and get the keys to the store. I need you to go there and take pictures of the back room."

"Right now?"

Smythe shot her a look of contempt and walked out of the room without another word.

Bianca got the Carters on their way and was gripping the keys hard enough to leave marks in her palm. She wasn't an idiot. She was pretty sure Byron would be waiting for her in the vitamin shop. She didn't appreciate him interfering with her job. She was going to give him a piece of her mind. Once she was done kissing him silly.

The ride down town took forever because of traffic and Bianca had an awful thought that he might give up and not be there. Her hands shook when she opened the store. She sneezed in the dust.

"I know you're here," she said, her voice echoing back to her. The empty shelves and fluttering light bulb were giving her the creeps.

As she lay dying, she called for him in her mind. But he had been banished. She was such a fool and she was paying the price for it. If she could have a second chance, she would never let him go. Mary wished he would know that her love for him would never die.

"You're so very smart," he said and she released the breath she hadn't realized she had been holding.

"Am I?" Bianca said. "I feel so stupid."

I let you go once. And now I'm mostly human, with no way to be fully dragon unless I sell my soul to the Order of the Dragon Slayers so they can force my dragon half to emerge.

Bryon came out of the backroom, dressed in a suit that made Smythe's custom made jobs look like off the rack. He held a bouquet of flowers. Stargazer lilies. Her favorite. She took them and buried her face in their sweet scent. The desire tickled her insides like a mischievous playmate.

"What's all this about? Do you believe me about Mary?"

"I had some time to think," he said. "And I want to court you." His non answer was an answer.

"Court me? Like a date?" She could accept he'd never believe her or she could tell him to pound sand.

"I'm assuming the Order had a way of helping you."

"I don't want to talk about it," she said quickly.

"Did they hurt you?"

"I can't talk about it!" she shouted.

"All right." He held up his hands in a placating manner. "Do you want me?"

"Yes," Bianca didn't even bother lying. "But I'm not going to sleep with you."

His face fell.

"Today."

A slight smile quirked up.

"I think we've got something worth exploring," Bianca said. The white dragon inside her, lifted her head again. Butterflies swirled in her stomach all the way up to her neck. "But you need to get to know me. And I need to get to know you."

Again.

"I've missed you." Byron closed the distance between them.

She wrapped her arms around his waist as he kissed her with sweet passion that made her long for the madness of ripping off their clothes.

"I promise, I will not make you my mate until you ask me to."

"What if it takes awhile?" Bianca said. "This is all still so strange to me." It was weird that she was in this half human, half dragon state. She'd have to get used to the memories from her life as a Queen coming back to her in odd moments.

"Take your time, but if you keep me waiting too long, I'll make you beg me."

Bianca cuddled into him. It might not be tomorrow, or next month, but she was pretty sure at some time in the future she wouldn't need the Order's vile blackmail drink. She was going to have to find a coffee substitute, though. Dragon blood had put her off coffee. She owed the Dragon Slayers something for that. And maybe someday, she'd have to courage to become a dragon Queen and go through their painful ritual. But for right now, it was enough that Bryon wanted her as a human mate.

"So are we going to go to the movies and bowling like normal couples?" Bianca asked.

"Whatever you desire."

"Will you take me to your lair?"

"My love, when you agree to be my mate I'll take you in my lair."

That was good enough for her.

The End

|  |

---|---|---

# The Emerging Queens Series

The Queen's Wings

Long ago, the Cult of Humanity sacrificed the Dragon Queen, crippling the breeding process. But now Carolyn hears the voice of that long dead queen telling her that she holds the key to breaking the spell that will free all the female dragons.

FBI dragon Reed's disdain for humans can't mask the magnetic attraction he has for Carolyn, but when she tells him she's going to shift into a dragon he thinks she's crazy. A female hasn't been hatched, or shape shifted, in over a thousand years.

He's proven wrong after Carolyn shifts and is named the new Queen on the block. A never-ending line of suitors forms, but she only wants Reed. Too bad he doesn't want in on the competition. But when the Cult kidnaps Carolyn to sacrifice her in an effort to make the curse against the female dragons permanent, Reed must face his fears--and feelings, racing to save the woman he realizes he can't live without.

The Queen's Flight

Courts, queens, and sexy dragons with wings...

Viola Pierce has never had particularly great luck with guys. That is, until the day she shifts into a glorious, deadly, three-headed dragon. As it turns out, Viola is a dragon Queen. But when she's abducted by a greedy dragon who wants to breed with her, Viola begins to realize the dragon world is filled with betrayal, deception, intrigue, and danger...

As a rule, Sergei hates Queens, but Viola's beauty and humanity reach something deep within him. Something he should not be feeling. When she names him her protector and consort--quite by accident--Sergei has no choice but to accept. Now they are bonded for life...with a growing attraction neither of them could have imagined.

But the dragon court is ruthless...and what doesn't kill Viola will only make her more dangerous.

The Queen's Dance

Despite his handicaps outside his natural habitat, water dragon Remy "Champ" Champlain fights to protect Queen Margery from those who plot to quash her damaging news reports by silencing her...forever.

He can never have her, but he'll protect her with his life.

After newly shifted sky dragon Queen Margery is rescued from smugglers by water dragon Remy Champlain, she debates whether to flesh out the story that nearly got her killed or embrace her royalty and build a court of protectors and studs. Sparks fly between Remy and her. He'd love her to give up her job and settle down...hopefully with him...but he can't fly and she can't swim, so their relationship can never get off the ground.

|  |

---|---|---

# Other books by Jamie K. Schmidt:

Club Inferno Series

Heat

Longing

Fever

The Emerging Queens Series

The Queen's Mystery - FREE on most ebook retailers!

The Queen's Wings

The Queen's Flight

The Queen's Dance

Spice - Book Three in the Fate Series \- Co-written with Jenna Jameson

The Truth & Lies Series

Truth Kills

Truth Reveals

Truth Thrills coming 5/6/18

Truth Decides coming 7/10/18

The Hawaii Heat series

Life's a Beach

Beach Happens

Beach My Life coming 2/6/18

The Sentinels of Babylon series

Necessary Evil

Sentinel's Kiss

Warden's Woman - coming 3/6/18

Ryder's Dream - coming 9/11/18

Stand alone novels

Stud

Hard Cover

|  |

---|---|---

# Truth & Lies Series

Aged out of the system and battle worn from unsuccessful foster care, four women on the cusp of adulthood find passion and their paths in life through the help of an anonymous fairy godmother type who calls herself the Benefactrix.

Book One: Truth Kills

College freshmen, Phoebe's new lover is sexy, creative and willing to let her act out all her dirty fantasies. Unfortunately, Keith's not telling her the truth about who he really is and the secret past that binds them together. When his uncle breaks out of prison to search for the "girl who got away," Keith risks losing the best thing in his life by admitting to Phoebe that his uncle killed her parents.

Book Two: Truth Reveals

When Maryanne is given a scholarship to spend the summer after high school painting in the French countryside, she tries to reinvent herself from the foster kid whose parents loved meth more than they did her. But when Henri, the French caretaker of the chateau she's staying at, treats her like a spoiled rich girl, she's determined to make him sorry and seduces him - only it backfires and she's the one enthralled. Taken aback by the dark passion and the intense lovemaking, Maryanne feels forced to keep up the lie when a gossipy neighbor tells her than Henri is looking for an heiress to save the chateau from creditors.

Book Three: Truth Thrills

Given a prestigious job as a pastry chef right out of school, Larissa hides from her jealous co-workers who are plotting to sabotage her on opening night. Chef Rick O'Dell stops the disaster from happening, and Larissa is so grateful to him, she offers to do anything he wants - including being his willing sex slave, never expecting to be ensnared by his dominant touch and punishing caresses. When Rick is framed for stealing cash, Larissa has to push out of her comfort zone and stand up for herself and her new lover - if she's going to prove his innocence.

Book Four: Truth Decides

After a hot night of jungle sex, Kelly finds out the man she was intimate with was her on-again, off-again boyfriend, Chad's brother. Staying at their family's compound in Belize, Kelly is building up her photo portfolio with her new camera and sneaking around with Esteban. But when it's time to go and Kelly wants to stay, Chad tells her that if she doesn't smuggle drugs back into the US he'll be killed. But if Kelly does what Chad wants, she'll never see Esteban again.

|  |

---|---|---

# Truth Kills Prologue

Essex, CT

2007

A few months after her tenth birthday, Phoebe had been dreaming she was a pirate Captain when her mother's scream woke her up. Pounding down the stairs, still swinging her dream cutlass, Phoebe had been convinced that they were being boarded by evil skeletons.

No skeletons, but her father was wrestling on the floor with a strange man. Another strange man held her struggling mother in a choke hold. She had lost a shoe.

Who were these people?

What was happening?

Rooted to the spot, Phoebe could only cry in confused fright, convinced she was trapped in a nightmare. A gunshot went off, the noise deafening her. Her father's body convulsed and then went still. Blood splattered on the white shag carpet. His attacker shoved him off, and lay panting on the floor.

Managing to swing her arm back into the groin of the man who held her, her mother tore free. Wobbling with one heel, she grabbed Phoebe's hand and ran for the basement. Locking the cellar door behind her, her mother hurried them down the stairs.

"Mommy," Phoebe managed to get out between sobs.

"Shh," she said, rubbing Phoebe's arms as if to warm them. "The neighbors will have heard the noise. The police are on their way. We're safe here."

A heavy thud slammed against the door at the top of the stairs. They both had screamed. The sole light bulb in the basement swung from the tremor sending dust motes down like the puff of a dandelion.

Her mother's voice wavered. "They'll rob the house and leave. That's what they want." She turned to yell up at the top of the stairs. "Take what you want and go!" The door shook from another hard impact.

"Oh no," her mother said. "Listen to me." She hugged her tight. "Your father and I love you very much." She kissed her.

The door cracked under the pressure of another hit.

Her mother lifted her up on her father's worktable and opened the small hand crank window.

"Climb out."

Phoebe could barely fit.

The door exploded off the hinges. Her mother shoved her through the window.

"Run," she whispered.

The last memory Phoebe had of her mother was the terrible rictus smile she plastered on her face muttering, "Run. Don't let him catch you."

|  |

---|---|---

# Truth Kills Chapter One

Hartford, CT

2015

Phoebe Jones hunkered down in her hand-me-down parka and watched the guest house door for signs of wild sex, underage drinking and drug abuse. The door remained chaste and her toes were becoming ice cubes. Toying with the long strand of pearls around her neck, the only thing she had left of her mother, Phoebe wondered how long she should wait. She blew out a visible sigh and debated turning on the car to run the heater.

Deciding against it, she took a sip of ice cold coffee and glared at the door. She was staking out the guest house because the rumor was rock star Aiden Blaze was in there having a party after his show on campus. Campus security kept sweeping by and she was afraid if they saw her headlights or heard the engine, they would blow her cover. She was on a stakeout.

The lamest stake out on the planet.

Armed with the college paper's instant camera and a notepad and pencil, Phoebe waited until she realized that the rocker probably had a few drinks, maybe popped a few downers, assuredly banged the three co-eds he allegedly left with and fell asleep in a nice, warm comfortable bed. Which was where she should be right now, except her roommate was engaging in the wild sex, if not the boozing and drugging with her boyfriend.

At least he was nice enough to give her use of his car. Phoebe didn't even have a cell phone, but she wasn't complaining. She shouldn't even be here at Highland College, or UHIGH as most of the sweatshirts around campus said.

"The hell with this." Phoebe started the car and headed back to the student union building. It was unlocked, even at three in the morning. However, The Highland Signal's office required a key. Luckily, she had one of those. Even though as a freshman, she shouldn't have that either.

Warm air felt like a hug and she shut the door of the newspaper's office to keep it in.

"What the hell are you doing back here, Jones?"

Phoebe shrieked and slammed on all the lights. Her fingers curled around a lamp, ready to throw it in self-defense.

"Christ, I'm blind," the same male voice growled.

She couldn't see too well either, but even though her heart was hammering in her chest, she recognized the voice. It was the student newspaper's faculty advisor.

"It's three o'clock in the morning, Parker. Don't you have a home?" Phoebe tossed her purse down on her desk, rubbing her eyes.

Keith Parker wasn't a doddering old journalism professor, like she first thought a faculty advisor would be. He reminded her of Alex Pettyfer in Magic Mike with his broody good looks and tousled hair. Keith was a sex-on-two-legs graduate student with an attitude that made her want to either scream in frustration, chuck her panties at him, or run like hell--depending on his mood.

"I'm writing." He had his feet up on his desk and was leaning back in his chair. While, his laptop was open and on his lap, the slow blinking of his hazel eyes gave him away. Napping was more like it. His short brown hair was sticking up, and he scratched the thick five o'clock shadow on his cheek.

"Yeah?" Phoebe said, "Editorial or your thesis?"

Phoebe fired up the computer on her desk. It belonged to the college, but it was the closest thing to hers and she loved the old thing. It allowed her to send and receive emails from her friends from the orphanage. In fact, The Sentinel's office was more like home to her than her dorm room, especially since Joan and Brendon screwed like rabbits. Not that they cared if they had an audience. Brendon even asked Phoebe to join them.

"Thesis," he grumbled.

Phoebe winced. Great. That meant he was in a shitty mood. It was the first thing she learned this semester. Avoid Keith when he was working on his thesis. The second thing she learned was coffee soothed the savage beast.

"You want a cup of coffee?" she asked him, but only because she was making a pot for herself.

"Aiden Blaze's story was so hot it couldn't wait until morning?" Keith held out his oversized mug to her. It said MFIC. The last two letters stood for "In Charge."

Phoebe wasn't sure how she was going to tell him that the story was a dud. She ignored him until she was done starting the coffee maker. Taking the mug from him to fill, she looked at his right eyebrow so she wouldn't have to look him in the eye. "No story. Lights out."

He groaned and rubbed a hand over his face. "Jones, you were supposed to be in the room with him when the lights went out."

"I'm not sleeping with a rock star to get a story." She flounced away from him, deliberately setting his mug by the percolating coffee maker.

His feet hit the ground. Keith tossed the laptop on his desk.

Uh oh.

"I didn't say sleep with him." He stalked over to her. "I figured you'd finagle your way into the party."

Phoebe snorted. "I wasn't his demographic."

"He turned you away?" Keith scoffed. "Or did you not even try?"

Phoebe opened up her email program. She grinned when she saw a message from Maryanne in France, Kelly in Belize, and Larissa who was holding the fort in their sketchy apartment in New Haven, Connecticut which they all chipped in to rent after they turned eighteen and got kicked out of the system. "There was no story." Phoebe refused to answer the question that he already knew the answer to. Of course, she didn't push her way past all the groupies. She didn't flirt with security to get backstage and she didn't offer to blow Aiden Blaze for the chance to go back to the guest house and party. "Everyone was consenting all over the place. I didn't see any drug deals going down."

Keith grunted and loomed over her for a bit. "What are you going to do for a story this week then?"

She was forced to look up the long, lean length of him. Phoebe wished he wasn't a teacher and she wasn't a freshman. "I'll think of something."

He poured her a cup of coffee and handed it to her black, just how she liked it. Phoebe warmed her hands on it and took a deep breath. The smell always reminded her of her parents, of home--before it all ended in murder and arson. For a moment, she was that scared little girl trying to cram her butt out of the basement window.

"It needs to be about the concert," he said.

His voice snapped her out of it. It was late and she was tired. She was not going to have a flashback in front of Keith Parker. Phoebe had aged out of her state appointed therapist at the same time she graduated from high school. There wasn't any spare money for a private counselor and she didn't want to start over with one from the college. She was an adult, not a scared ten-year-old girl. This was her new beginning. Phoebe thought of it as being born again, but without the religion baggage.

"Okay," she said, putting the cup down and blinking back tears.

"Why are you here instead of your dorm room? Joan and Brendon should be through by now." Keith perched on her desk and she forced herself not to stare at his muscled thighs that the faded denim of his jeans clung to. She had earned her key to the office after the editor-in-chief noticed she kept vampire hours. So did Keith. They wound up talking during the nights they both didn't feel like working and didn't feel like going home. He knew all about her roommate and her studly boyfriend because she bitched about it a lot.

Phoebe snorted. "Probably. Or at least resting up for round three or four. They act like they're the first people to discover sex and if they don't practice it, they'll forget how."

Keith grunted. "It can happen."

She bet that never happened to him. Although, in the few months that she had known him, she never saw him with a girlfriend, or a boyfriend for that matter. "Why are you here instead of your bachelor apartment?"

"I work better here. At home I tend to watch TV or play video games."

"I lost my virginity to Super Mario Brothers." It was out before Phoebe realized what she had said. What the fuck was wrong with her? The blush started burning up her neck until she was sure her face was a mortified shade of red.

To his credit, Keith only smirked. "Luigi or Mario?"

"I'm sorry?" Phoebe asked.

"Which plumber popped your cherry?"

She gave a laugh that eased some of her embarrassment. "Actually, his name was Mark. We were in the family room playing video games. His parents went out for a walk and..." Phoebe shrugged.

"It was my senior prom. I sprung for a motel." This was the type of thing they talked about, crazy and personal stuff that would sound weird in the light of day, but after three a.m. was completely acceptable.

"A true gentlemen," she teased.

"It had mirrors on the ceiling, a fur bedspread..."

"Ew." Phoebe shuddered

"And free porn playing non-stop." He grinned down at her.

"You're a class act, Parker." She had to look away because he was rapidly approaching panty flinging territory when he smiled like that. They had insta-attraction from the moment they met. Like they were magnets. While she was hot for the teacher, Phoebe never had the nerve to do more than flirt.

Keith hopped off her desk and walked back to his own. She could feel him staring at her by the way the hairs on her neck stood up. But rather than creeping her out, it made her shiver in reaction. She was halfway through reading Maryanne's letter about what a dick the caretaker of the chateau she was staying at was when Keith interrupted.

"What happened to Marky?"

Phoebe took a long sip of her coffee. "It went on like that for awhile. I couldn't take him back to my place." The nuns would have freaked. "He didn't have a car or access to a motel room with a fur bedspread." She glanced over her shoulder at him.

He saluted her with his coffee cup.

"Eventually, we got caught. His little shit of a brother narced on us and Mark was told never to see me again."

"He agreed to that?"

"It's not like he had much of a choice. We snuck around for a few weeks, but in the end I didn't want to risk getting in trouble if his mother complained to the group home." Phoebe had already told Keith that she was an orphan. She didn't give him the details. She didn't give anyone the details, especially not to a journalist. Keith was a stringer for several local papers. She had a few of his articles cut out and saved in her memory book.

A quick Google search would have given Keith all the details he needed, anyway. There were a lot of Jones. Phoebe Joneses were rare. "Orphaned Phoebe Jones" brought up a home invasion, dead parents, and a fire that killed three people.

Keith never asked, and she hadn't volunteered the information. But they talked about everything else. He was trying to get her to complain to the Resident Director about her roommate's proclivities, but Phoebe knew it was better to keep below the radar and things usually righted themselves. Still, it was worth a few embarrassing moments to have nearly unlimited use of Brendon's car.

"Ever think about calling Marky up now?" Keith asked. "You could take turns having the dorm room with Joan."

She shook her head. "No. Not interested."

"In sex?" His voice was sin itself.

Phoebe rubbed the goose bumps off her arms. "In the past."

Sex with Mark had been pretty good considering it was both their first times. They let the game with the insipid music play so his parents thought they were busy jumping on Koopas instead of each other. While Mario was hanging out on a block in the sky, they were making out like fiends. It started with the typical bases. First base was tongue kissing. Second base was he felt her up under her shirt. Phoebe squirmed a little in her seat remembering. She would take her bra off and stuff it in her book bag. Her breasts were very sensitive, he could usually get her to come just by playing with them. They stayed at second base for a long time.

Phoebe fanned herself with her notebook remembering. There was something about the sheer innocence of kissing and touching on the couch in his family room that got her motor running.

Third base was getting in each other's pants. They would try to get the other off first, as if speed was the best outcome. In that house it was. They didn't want to risk Mark's parents coming in.

Then, the big time.

Mark had pulled his pants to his ankles. She had kicked off her panties, leaving on her skirt. Straddling him, Phoebe had lifted up her shirt putting her breasts in his face. She remembered riding him while he came sucking on her tits.

Phoebe blew out a shaky breath, aware that it was very silent in the Sentinel's office.

"What are you thinking about?" Keith asked, his deep voice tightening her already hard nipples.

"The past," she admitted.

"It's not always so bad."

"It's not always so good, either," Phoebe said ruefully.

Like a cold shower, she was brought back to the reality of the present. She wondered for the millionth time what life would have been like if those two psychopaths decided to rob the neighbor's house instead. She'd probably still be here right now. This was her parents' alma mater. They met here and fell in love. For once since that awful night, it felt like Phoebe's life was back on track. Thanks to the Benefactrix.

Every year, a mysterious donor called the Benefactrix offered a select few who were aging out of the group home, a graduation gift.

This year, the Benefactrix chose Phoebe and her three friends. Phoebe was awarded free tuition, room and board. Maryanne got to paint for a year in France. Kelly received camera equipment to give her a head start as a photojournalist. And Larissa was offered a job at a prestigious new restaurant as a pastry chef. Glancing at the clock on her computer, Phoebe saw that Larissa would be getting up soon to start the day's baking.

"What about Brendon's roommate?" Keith asked.

She blanked for a moment, trying to remember why he would be asking that. "Barry?" Phoebe shrugged. "What about him?"

"He's got a free bed that Brendon's not using. Is he a creep or a nice guy?"

"Nice guy," Phoebe said. "We tried our hand at being the next Joan and Brendon, but it didn't work out."

"Chafing?"

Phoebe almost snorted her coffee out of her nose. "Boredom."

"Ouch." Keith winced.

She had wanted a room that was hers more than she wanted Barry. Sex with Barry had been fun and uncomplicated. In a pinch, she could crash there or even do a booty call. But it wasn't what she needed. After eight years in the system, she wanted roots. Her dream growing up had always been to go to Highland University. Her parents had taken her to all the Thanksgiving football games. It was a final connection with them. But her grades hadn't been good enough for an educational scholarship. That's why the Benefactrix's graduation gift had been perfect.

The only catch was that it was only for her freshman year. The first semester was coming to a close and she only had three more to figure out how she was going to pay for next year. Her job at the library shelving books wasn't going to cut it. Maybe something fantastic would come up over the summer. A well paying job that she could use to pay her sophomore year's tuition.

She gave a half smile to her coffee cup. Miracles didn't happen twice. She was here to learn everything she could before it was back to community college and her old job as a grocery store cashier. Her fingers tightened on the handle and it cracked.

"Shit," she said, putting the cup down before she spilled coffee all over herself.

"You all right over there?" Keith asked.

"It's the witching hour," she said, using the back of her hand to wipe away the rogue tears that got past her defenses. "You know. When all the monkeys in your brain come out and fling poo? I forgot to duck."

"What are the monkeys squawking about?"

"The future." Phoebe sighed. "I'm worried about tomorrow. Not Saturday. Or I suppose Sunday since it's technically Saturday now," she clarified. "All my tomorrows."

"You're a good writer," he said.

"Where did that come from?" Phoebe asked. Compliments from Keith were few and far between.

"But," he continued as if she hadn't spoken, "you need to stop playing it safe. You need to write outside your comfort zone. There was a story tonight. It might not have been the lurid one you wanted. But you could have gotten close to Aiden Blaze and done a story about him. You could have talked with the groupies. Hell, I'm sure the security guards had some wild stories to tell if you wanted to write about sex, drugs and rock and roll."

"Not if they wanted to keep their jobs," she said.

"You sat in your car and hid."

"I don't like pushy reporters."

She was holding the hand of her social worker as they walked down the courthouse stairs. Flashbulbs blinded her. Microphones shoved in her face.

How are you holding up?

How am I holding up? My parents are dead. My home burned down. My toys are gone. The bad man is still alive. Fuck you.

Of course ten-year-old girls looking to be adopted didn't use that type of language.

"You didn't even try."

For a moment, Phoebe was trapped in the past and she fielded the accusation like she was ten again. There was nothing she could have done to save them. She got help as fast as she could. She didn't want to leave them. She just hadn't wanted the bad guys to get her.

Then Phoebe blinked and it was just her and Keith in the Sentinel's office. She wasn't a child. She moved beyond all that pain or at least she told herself she had. "Stop throwing shit at me."

"Duck," he said. "Because I don't want a bullshit fluff piece from you this week reviewing the concert."

"Fine. I'll open a vein and bleed on the page." Phoebe rolled her eyes and shoved her forearm at him.

"I don't want blood. I want vomit and bile."

"You have issues," Phoebe told him.

"We all have issues. Write about them. Until you do, you're on the student senate beat."

"You can't be serious." Phoebe flung back her chair. They gave that assignment to noobs who didn't know better. It was a punishment.

"If you're going to play it safe, you will report on safe things. Like meetings about parking spaces and whether or not we should cancel the Earth Day parade if it rains."

"This is bullshit," she said between her teeth.

He held his hands wide. "This is Sparta," he said, mimicking Gerard Butler.

If she wasn't so pissed at him, it would have really turned her on. She grabbed her purse and stormed out.

Truth Kills is available at most e-book retailers

# Don't miss out!

Click the button below and you can sign up to receive emails whenever Jamie K. Schmidt publishes a new book. There's no charge and no obligation.

<https://books2read.com/r/B-A-VIBC-XUTJ>

Connecting independent readers to independent writers.
Did you love _The Queen's Mystery_? Then you should read _The Queen's Wings_ by Jamie K. Schmidt!

When the cult of humanity sacrificed a dragon Queen, they crippled the breeding process. A female hasn't been hatched or shape shifted in over a thousand years.

Carolyn believes with all her heart that she will shift into a dragon. The voice of that long dead Queen tells her she holds the key to breaking the cult's spell, freeing the other female dragons that are trapped in human form.

Everyone else thinks she's crazy. Especially Reed, the sexy FBI dragon, whose disdain for humans almost hides the magnetic attraction they have for each other.

However, when Carolyn manifests a breath weapon, she's suddenly the new Queen on the block. This is not how she pictured her emergence as a dragon would go, vomiting acid and having willing sex slaves. Although, the second part doesn't sound so bad - if she could only have just one: Reed.

Reed's not interested in sharing his mate with the other studs, even if the continuation of his species is at risk. He wants the cult that killed his sister. But they haven't stayed hidden for this long without resources. Now, the cult needs Carolyn on their altar in order to make the curse permanent. Reed will see them dead before that happens because if the cult isn't stopped not only do the other female dragons remain human, but Reed will lose the only woman he's ever loved.

Read more at Jamie K. Schmidt's site.

# About the Author

USA Today bestselling author, Jamie K. Schmidt, writes erotic contemporary love stories and paranormal romances. Her steamy, romantic comedy, Life's a Beach, reached #65 on USA Today, #2 on Barnes & Noble and #9 on Amazon and iBooks. Her Club Inferno series from Random House's Loveswept line has hit both the Amazon and Barnes & Noble top one hundred lists. The first book in the series, Heat, put her on the USA Today bestseller list for the first time, and is a #1 Amazon bestseller. Her dragon paranormal romance series has been called "fun and quirky" and "endearing." Partnered with New York Times bestselling author and former porn actress, Jenna Jameson, Jamie's hardcover debut, SPICE, continues Jenna's FATE trilogy.

Read more at Jamie K. Schmidt's site.
