

the life you want

the life you want

by

Eva

CoolavanghPress

the life you want

by Eva

http://www.thelifeyouwantbook.com/

Copyright 2013 © by Eva.

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, copied, stored, or transmitted in any form or by any means—graphic, electronic, or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or information storage and retrieval systems—without prior written permission from the publisher, except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages in a review, or where permitted by law.

Published by CoolavanghPress

Smashwords Edition

www.coolavanaghpress.com

Contents

Freezing Thought

You're Powerhouse

Breaking Free

Thoughts That Think

A Power Desire

Feelings Feel

Making a Life

Putting NOW First

Living By What You Want

Very Big Change

1

Freezing Thought

There's a story of a young Irish man named Murphy. He worked at his local abattoir. Murphy was working late one night and no one else was around. He walked into the freezer to grab some meat when the freezer door closed and locked behind him.

Murphy immediately panicked as he knew there was no one there to get him out. He also knew that the freezer dropped well below zero, and anyone in it for longer than three hours would freeze – and him stuck in there with only a t-shirt on him wasn't giving him much hope. He had neither his phone on him nor no one around, and he knew he would not make it the whole night.

When the boys came the next morning and opened the freezer they found Murphy laying there stiff. When the autopsy came back all signs said, 'Yes Murphy froze to death'.

However, the manager had checked the freezer the day that Murphy died and seen that it was broken and had it scheduled to be fixed the morning Murphy was found. That night that Murphy froze the freezer never dropped below fifteen degrees.

Murphy believed that that freezer would freeze him!

So does that mean that your beliefs have the power to dictate your life? And if so, what can happen if we change our beliefs to those that support us for our best good?

What You Haven't Known

Many people have been brought up to believe that their life is not in their control. Beliefs in luck, fate and destiny have people living with a sense of powerlessness. What I would like to make clear is that nothing in your life is in the hands of a power other than yourself.

Now in every moment you have the power to change anything that may not be pleasing you. Whatever happens to be your experience is only that because of the beliefs that you have chosen to believe.

Many beliefs tend to go unrecognized, and are often mistaken for facts. There are many beliefs that you have and many of them serve you in a positive manner, but there also happens to be many that serve you in a limiting sense.

The beliefs that you carry at this time are more than likely those that you have picked up from others. Several are from your parents and those around you, and lots are from the media.

So if there are beliefs that you can pick up so easily from others, that it goes unrecognized, doesn't it make you wonder how your life can be when you choose which beliefs you will believe. And then your life is in your control.

Number 1 Comes First

Somewhere along the line you've been told to put yourself last after all others have been helped. When you feel you must follow that belief you really only use that as an excuse to not let yourself deserve the life you want to live. When you don't attend to yourself you cut yourself off from the reason you are here to begin with.

You are going to learn how to attend to yourself first and at the same time help others in a more powerful way than you have before.

The Present

In every moment you are always given feedback from your inner self. The feedback is shown to you at all times as to whether or not you are on track with your desired life.

In every moment you are either feeling an emotion that feels good or an emotion that feels bad. Then there are all the emotions in between that dictate whether you are feeling good or bad. So that can only mean that you just have the choice to feel good or to feel bad.

When you feel you don't have the choice to feel other than you are feeling you keep your highest power locked up. In order to allow that power to project itself you must begin to pay close attention to how you are feeling, along with the belief that you have the choice to change and direct your emotions.

24hr Hotline

You are always given this feedback from your inner self. You are constantly desiring more from life, and with that desire you are always given the choice to either follow it or not. So that choice will then allow you the choice to feel good or bad also.

An example is, if your life causes you to desire a better relationship with someone—meaning that your current relationship is not up to your standards—you then have the choice to make the decision to improve that relationship. Once you decide to improve it you are then given feedback from your inner self, and the feedback is telling you whether or not you are heading in the direction of your new desire. The choice that you get to make is to feel good about your new desire or to feel bad about it.

Always when you are feeling good you are heading towards your desire and always when you are feeling bad you are heading in the opposite direction of it. But you must know that you always have the choice.

The Wind Blows

Whenever you have your desire noted and have now made the decision to make your way towards it, you are then going to be caught among situations that are going to push you towards what you want or push you away from it.

Every thought that you think that feels good will be pushing you towards it and every thought that feels bad will push you away from it. With the thoughts that feel good it will feel as though you are walking with the wind at your back—the easier it is, the easier it gets. When you think thoughts that feel bad it's like walking against the wind—the harder it is, the harder it gets. And the wind will always pick up momentum in which ever direction you are heading.

However, you always have the choice to change the direction at anytime. So even in the moment that you make the decision to change the direction, the momentum of that direction slows down and begins to change direction, and picks up speed in that direction.

That's Just the Way It Is

There is a system in which every desire follows. First, there is always the creating of the desire—you choose what you want. Then what follows, is the belief of obtaining the desire or not. Following the belief, is the various thoughts upon the desire. Then the emotions you feel are always activated by the thoughts you think about your desire.

In order to even be remotely heading in the direction towards your desire, the belief must be that this desire can be obtained in some way. If the belief is other than that, the belief must be changed.

Once the belief has been recognized—whether you are aware of it or not—it will always bring about thoughts that will match the belief, and then the thoughts will always cause the emotions that are felt. So if right away the thought of your desire brings about negative emotion, that means the belief of obtaining your desire must be changed first, or else you will never feel good when you think about what you want.

Then that must mean that your beliefs, thoughts and emotions are equally as important when fulfilling your life. For without the emotion, the belief cannot be recognized, and without the thought, the emotion can't be felt.

All beliefs, thoughts and emotions can be changed, with a little bit of effort, so that they now bring you and your desire together.

Allow Your Desire In

Once a belief has been recognized you must begin to allow what you want to come to you. Allowing what you want is going to be where most of your effort is required. In this place of allowing you will be guided towards your desire by your thoughts and emotions.

Every thought that you think will either bring you to what you want or away from it. That is why it is important to be aware of the thoughts you think, and become aware of how those thoughts make you feel.

Open up to the emotions that you receive from your thoughts. You can easily do this by beginning to become aware of whether a thought makes you feel good or bad. You must begin paying attention more often throughout your day as to whether or not what you are thinking is making you feel good or bad. And if and when your thoughts are thinking too much, you must ask yourself, "Do I feel on the higher scale of good or bad?"

All emotions will at various times feel different depending on where the previous emotion was, meaning, whether it was on the higher end of good or the higher end of bad, and depending on which direction it is headed.

You will always know the direction you are headed without any doubt. When the thought feels good it is good for you and where you want to go.

It's Your Choice

Whatever your desire may be there is always a way of obtaining it, even if at this moment it seems so out of reach that you can't even get a glimpse of it from where you are. This time is your time to make the decision as to whether your life is important enough to you to make the simple effort of deciding which beliefs you will choose to believe, what thoughts you will think, and what emotions you will put up with.

This book is a simple reference written to guide you towards the life you want to live. All the processes in this book will bring you and your desire in perfect harmony, and all that is required is your willingness to learn and the effort put in on your behalf.

2

Your Powerhouse

You are brought into this life with an inner self and you are also always a part of the whole soul that was there in existence before you were born. You are always connected to both your soul and inner self, and both work in tune together with you as a person.

Ponder This

When you as a person have a desire of any degree, your inner self works with you to guide you in the direction of that desire, and all the while your soul is already waiting for you in the place where you would be with your desire.

The work of your soul is to get your inner self to bring you over to that desired place. However, at times you don't listen to your inner self, so you don't go.

What You Get

When you choose not to listen to your inner self, you continue to get more of the same life you are wanting to change.

Many of us have been taught to not expect much from life and ourselves. That belief is what causes us to not get much from it and ourselves.

When you never receive what it is that you really want, you, in a way, pinch yourself off of the soul that you came from. And every time you choose to ignore your inner self, you become a sort of broken part of who you are.

Robocop

A lot of us are constantly looking to get more from life. Nothing that we seem to do satisfies us enough so that we wake up every morning with a sense of joy and passion. The main reason for that lack of passion is that many of us conform to the way that society believes that we should live. And society has it that you are to never break away from what's expected.

There is a massive amount of people that dread just what tomorrow has on their schedule, and many people are just plain bored that the thought of another day like this is just a waste of time. Numbers of us are expected to know what we want to do with ourselves at an unreasonable age, when what you want to do is constantly changing. You are expected to have your family up and running and your finances under control, all by a specific time. Society wants you to keep up with what everyone else is doing, and if you ever thought to do something other than what's expected of you, you're well, a weirdo.

Now I am telling you that stepping out of societies prison and doing whatever it is you want to do in life is the best thing you can do.

What You See

The way that most of us have been taught is to never know what really goes on inside ourselves. Everything that happens in our lives is brought to us by our own ideas and belief about our ideas. An idea is what you would usually call a reality of life. You think what you are currently living is what your life is; however, everything that you are living is just an idea of what life should be. That is why nothing in your life is permanent.

If the life that you have is the way that life is supposed to be then that would mean that it is supposed to be the same for everyone else. But the way that it is is that you get to choose what idea a life should be for you. You always get the right to choose what idea is best for you.

You already have an idea of what the most appropriate life for yourself seems like, and those ideas of this life are always a match to your beliefs. However, since ideas are just ideas, they can be changed so that they match what your ideal life would look like. And since they are not anywhere near what a life should be, these ideas can be changed quite easily.

Your Way of Making It Happen

You not only believe that what you get in life is just because that is the way life handed it to you, but you also believe that what you get must be earned and nothing gained without pain.

You are a person of this planet, as is everyone else. The moment you were born you were your own precious person. You were in fact not only loved, but just simply adored.

You may believe that that is just the innocence that all children have but that innocence is and always will be a part of you. You have come to believe that a child's precious place in the world is more pure than your own, when the world you have yourself is just as pure and innocent.

The main reason you believe that nonsense is because you have built up some guilt along your trail. All that guilt is only a way of you not allowing yourself to learn and make mistakes. Then you put up a sort of wall to everything that you desire and yourself. Keeping a hold of your guilt is maybe the reason you never allow yourself to just get what you want without any struggle. So you think that for yourself to obtain your desires you must put in more agony to at least make yourself relatively worthy of what you want. Not any amount of agony or struggle will make up for not changing the belief on what you think being worthy should allow.

You Are Worth It All

Every single desire that you want has the potential to desire you. All that you may find to be lined up with your desire is not just one desire but everything that is of the same essence. What that means is when you want, say a lot more money, it's not just the money that you are wanting but rather it's everything that money represents, such as material possessions with the freedom to purchase at your choice. From that freedom comes also the essence of the freedom to work at a time that pleases you and an art that pleases you. From that freedom also comes the security of being safe on a financial level, which would then bring the essence of being safe in your relationships and environment.

Once you change your belief on being worthy in one area of your life, you will automatically have the desire to have the essence of what your desire represents flood into all other areas of your life. Every desire will always bring with it the wanting of what it means to you in many other ways. That's why when you allow only one desire in, everything else in your life will flourish.

Everything You Want

Every desire has with it a specific manifestation process that will always work in the exact same way for each desire, whether big or small, material or emotional. No matter what it may be, it will always unfold in the exact way that matches your belief that you believe now about your desire. Far too many of us are unwilling to allow this manifesting time to unfold. Most are way too impatient to let this time take place. Nonetheless, all unfolding must go through this time.

Your soul has been accumulating a sort of massive pool of every desire that you have ever desired. So when you have decided to desire something, what happens is, you send a message to your soul who then instantly becomes that new desire. Once your soul becomes that desire, it immediately works at getting what you want to go to you. A good way to understand that is to imagine your soul as another you that is living every single desire you have ever desired. Or another way to look at it is your soul is always on the manifested side of every desire.

Once that has taken place—your soul becoming your desire—then there is a time now where you must let in what you want. And in order to do that, you must find out what your main belief, thoughts and emotions are in regards to your desire.

What You Do

All of the things in your life are just the manifesting of every belief that you have up until now believed. Nothing that is here now is permanent and nothing that is still to come is permanent. Whether or not you have been aware of the creating you have done up until this point, it still does not matter or change the fact that you were still creating it yourself.

Since everything in your world is only an idea of what you believe, it should then be relatively easy to change that that you no longer wish to have and receive that which you wish to have instead.

Your soul already is what you desire and the only way your inner self can direct you is in the direction of what you want. And the only reason you sometimes don't go in that direction is because your beliefs tell you otherwise.

3

Breaking Free

When you understand that your beliefs about your life are the reason why everything happens the way it does, you instantly set yourself free.

Every belief has with it a strong knowing that makes your belief believable. A knowing of something is an emotion that brings everything into fruition. So what that must mean is that to manifest any desire you must have your belief in a place that the knowing of it to be yours must override all other emotions of never receiving what you want.

Finding what exactly your beliefs are, in regards to your desire, is easier than you may imagine. Many of us have been told that beliefs are not what you believe, but rather a proven fact of life. Whenever you were a child you picked up many beliefs on various topics and never thought to question whether or not these beliefs serve you in the way you would like.

Although you are not still where you want to be, doesn't mean that you may not get there very soon.

Realizing What You Think

Every time that you think about anything over a certain amount of time, that thought becomes embedded in your mind and forms a belief. The beliefs that you have picked up from infancy have been formed by you, at that time, picking up on the energy that those around you were projecting from themselves as regards to their beliefs at that time. Probably the beliefs that they held were formed in the same manner, including ones that they happened to create because of their idea that they made about their idea of life and this world. Then all that can mean is that your beliefs are formed by you in two different ways.

Now the beliefs that are formed at childhood can be changed and the ones that have been created by your thoughts can also be changed, as well as recognizing what thoughts are the ones that are limiting your beliefs. Then you will be able to create a new thought, to form a new belief that you would rather hold.

The Past Is The Past

Everyone has had a past that brought them to this exact moment. The past is just the past, but what many people tend to do is reopen the past that they have at every moment that something is not working out well for them. If instead of taking a good look at their past problems they took a better look at their now, they would get much better and quicker results to what they are wanting to change.

Many people tend to give their own power of focus over to some doctor that claims they must fish out all repressed emotions that were there in infancy. Most often these emotions are not even consciously available at this time that a session of hypnosis must be applied. The reason you are unable to bring those emotions to the surface is because your inner self knows that it will serve no purpose, other than bring them into the present where they don't belong. Any negative episodes that were experienced and put to rest, could possibly, in essence, come into your life again.

There may be some episodes you have not put to rest, and you don't have to look to the past for them, as there will be an emotional feeling present that you will recognize when you take a good look at your beliefs in various areas of your life at this time.

Beliefs change throughout your life and that is why the past ones don't matter—they are no longer a belief that you believe, so they can no longer create in your now and future.

Understanding Beliefs

When a belief has been recognized it then has the ability to change or stay the same. In the large scale of things it doesn't matter that you don't change them, but if you are unsatisfied with something in your life, or there is something that you desire that doesn't feel good, it is essential that you do change them.

Many beliefs can be challenging to recognize at first since you have until now thought of them as truth and facts. Letting yourself understand how beliefs work will give you a greater understanding of how and why your life is the way that it is, and what you can expect from the now and future. Let's take a look at some common beliefs that many hold:

The world is dangerous and unsafe.

This belief will cause you to feel unsafe in your environment and more unsafe if you leave your current living space. This belief also tells you not to trust others.

The world is a joyful and pleasant place to be.

This belief will cause you to feel comfortable and safe wherever you go. It will also allow you to seek out new adventures with a sense of anticipation and excitement. This belief will give you a genuine smile on your face, and also on the faces of others. Everything will seem as a manmade heaven.

Everything that I get must be earned.

This belief causes you to never expect much from life. It also causes you to only receive good when a whole lot of effort was put into it. This belief will always have you working hard with little time to enjoy what is being earned.

The universe always provides what I want.

This belief gives a sense of freedom and knowledge. It says that you can enjoy everything in life and know that you will always be supported.

My self has no control over what happens.

This belief gives a sense of powerlessness. It will have you living in fear and to be constantly dependant on others. This belief will make you feel that nothing in the world is safe.

I am in control of what happens to me.

This belief tells you that nothing can touch you without you being aware of it first. It will give you a feeling of power and joy. This belief will make you manifest everything you desire with ease.

Every belief, whether it appears to be positive or negative, comes with it then ideas of how you view yourself and the world. And that will then of course create that view for you so that it matches the belief.

The Belief That Changed

How just a little bit of effort can bring such dramatic results into someone's life can make the thought of this change quite difficult to believe. But that's only the belief that you and many others have believed, that new change is a stepping stone process that must only be started at the bottom and worked on until you have reached the top, with many struggles and hardships to move through. So you bypass any advice that you receive that's too simple and too good to be true.

However, when you begin this process with a sceptical mind it will be to your advantage, as you will have no expectations of the progress you will soon encounter. You will not be looking and checking in every few hours to see the evidence of it working for you.

Changing a belief will be far easier and will bring about better results than trying to keep negative thoughts from entering your mind. Every time you try to push negative thoughts from your mind, you only create more of what you are trying to remove, but that is something we will discuss later.

All you must do is begin the process we will discuss and nothing else will be required of you. Changing your beliefs is the beginning of the life you want. The results will be amazing and you will feel vital and powerful by doing so.

Free Now

To change a belief has this simple, yet so powerful process. Begin by stating the belief of something you want to change or something you have difficulty believing you can have. This is to be your current belief that is stated. The belief can be anything you feel you think strongly about or have a high opinion of.

An excellent way to find out what your current belief is, is to write down several statements about how you feel about the thing you want to change or how you feel about what you want. Have a good look over them and you should see some sort of pattern between them.

If you find it difficult to recognize the pattern, leave it for a few days and you will then be able to notice one. Also when you leave it for a few days you will allow other feelings, that you were unaware you had, to come to the surface. The feelings that you have not been aware of may very well be your strongest emotion in regards to this subject, just pushed away because of fear. Letting all emotions—hidden or not hidden—come to the surface is the first step to change. Do not fear your emotions, for this will only cause resistance even more.

At this time you should already be feeling freer, and you will be noticing how your beliefs are just that—beliefs not truth.

Now with each statement you have noted, write down the emotion that you feel towards each one. Use a thesaurus to help you identify the most appropriate emotion. The variety of words that you use may be limited, but with the thesaurus it helps broaden your range. Also some words seem to have the same meaning, but have very different meanings to you regarding the emotion you feel when reading each statement.

With each emotion that you have written for all the statements, take the one that you feel has the strongest negative or resistant emotion towards the belief that you want to change. Or choose the emotion that matches the belief most appropriately, or even the one that stands out the most for you. You will know what feels most right.

With the emotion that you have chosen, find the best word for you that is the complete opposite emotion that you want to feel about your belief—the belief you want to believe about your desire. Then write down various beliefs that give you the emotion that mean the same as your new emotion. Don't give too much thought to what you are writing. Your statements should not be too long and complicated. They should be short and easy to read aloud. Read over your list and select the best statement for you that is the most suitable for the belief you want to believe about your desire.

Then with the new statement, for five to ten minutes every day, recite it over and over in your mind or aloud, whichever feels best for you. During this time imagine the statement as a belief that you believe. Feel the belief as being a belief you have always believed. Feel the words as ringing truth for you.

A very important attitude to have before and during this process is to take it as a game you are playing, and do not be overly serious with it. Pretend you are in a child's mind and become light-hearted and playful—for when you are playful you have no resistance.

I want to repeat the importance of being light-hearted and playful, so that you understand its importance in changing your belief to receive the quickest and best results.

Broken Free

Once you begin to understand your beliefs and recognize which ones hold you away from what you want, you will come to realize that your beliefs are just beliefs and that they are not a permanent part of you. They were formed by you and they can be changed by you. The beliefs that you now hold that you don't feel serve you in the way you would like to serve yourself can very easily be changed to ones that do.

Having an open mind while searching for your beliefs is beneficial. Being childlike while changing them is key.

Even though your beliefs may have been with you for some time does not mean they must take time to change. Using the process we have discussed, many beliefs can be changed in an overnight period and some will require more time, approximately a month maximum, but all it takes is your commitment to yourself for five to ten minutes a day.

Although you may not fully realize the power in this simple process, it will be to your benefit to keep the sceptical mind in order to be playful about it and to not be checking in for your results everyday.

Once your beliefs change, your thoughts will automatically change.

4

Thoughts That Think

Since your thoughts are what bring about a belief, there is great power in every thought that you think. Whenever you think something it will begin thinking on its own, but you may not be fully aware of this. Every thought will always think new thoughts that are similar in emotion. However, finding out what your thoughts are can also be fairly simple when you begin to pay closer attention to them.

Thoughts Are Thoughts

Each and every thought will always create more thoughts that will match the thought. Whenever you think about anything there has to be a flow that is in place. Many people believe that their thoughts are just that—thoughts. They carry on their daily routines without giving any attention to what they are thinking about, and more importantly, what they are thinking in regards to what they are wanting.

You must begin to have an awareness of what you are thinking in your day-to-day life, for every thought has the potential to create your beliefs.

You are thinking all day without even having the slightest notion about what you're thinking. Whenever you are thinking a thought that thought will automatically conjure up another thought that is similar in nature. This is what the flow of all your thoughts is.

You think that thoughts haven't any strong creating power with regards to how your life becomes what it is, but they are so much more than you think you know.

One Plus One

An example to understand just how one thought creates another will help you understand your thoughts much better.

Think right now about the fact that your job doesn't allow much time for you to vacation wherever you want. They actually don't even pay you enough to stay away for as long as you please, for you need to be working in order to pay your current bills, not put a luxury vacation on top of what you already spend. You are most likely thinking right now that the very fact is that its true, "I haven't enough vacation time to really go where I want to go, and I haven't enough money to go anyways."

What is beginning to happen is you are thinking every thought that matches the thought that you are unable to go on holiday when you would like. You may even be thinking of many more reasons why you are unable to go, such as, "The children are at school and I couldn't take them out or go without them. And I really don't want to leave the dogs in a kennel."

That's just an example of how each thought leads on to another. The first thought was not being able to go because of your work schedule, which led on to thinking up every other thought about not being able to go. Had the example said for you to imagine plenty of money kicking around, and a job that you could come and go as you please, the thoughts would have been different—more freedom involved—but how each thought leads on to the next is the exact same.

So just from one thought many more with the same emotion will follow. This can be a very good thing or a very bad thing. It just depends on whether your thoughts are about your desire or not. But, either way, a thought is always creating another thought.

Beliefs That Think

Other than the beliefs that you have picked up from your parents when you were a youngster, there are also beliefs that you have created by your own thoughts. When a thought has been thought enough times it then becomes more than just a thought, it becomes a belief that you know to be true.

You are thinking so many thoughts in each day. From the moment you open your eyes in the morning, to the moment you fall sound asleep, you are thinking thoughts. There happen to be many thoughts running through your mind that don't really have any power, or at least not enough to form a belief. These would be thoughts, such as when to eat, brushing your teeth, making your food, being in a car or what to watch on TV.

But there are also many thoughts that do have power in them to create a belief. These thoughts can be anything from what you think about when you think about money, work, your body and health, and those important people around you. These thoughts would also include what you think about the economy and the world as a whole. All of these thoughts have much power in them because they are topics that hit you on a more personal level than those about just daily decision-making.

When you begin to think more often about what it is that you are thinking about, especially in regards to what you want, you will soon notice that your thoughts are very similar to one another. And when those thoughts are thought about enough times, beliefs are formed.

What Thought Is Thinking

Since you may not even know what exactly your thoughts are, it can be relatively easy to find out. The process that was given to you on how to change a belief in the previous chapter is definitely a good way to become more aware of your thoughts, as it advises you to find the thought you feel about a belief and a desire.

A better way to become aware of your thoughts is to make a small commitment to yourself that throughout your day you will remind yourself to randomly stop what you are doing in your mind, and become aware of the thoughts you are thinking at that time. Try to do this about every two to three hours and work up to every hour. You should only need to do this process for a short period of time—about a week or so—as this is just to make you become aware of what your dominating thoughts are. Make sure to try it at different times throughout each day, while getting ready, eating, driving, at work, talking to others, waiting, relaxing, and many more.

Whenever you come across a pattern that will show you what your main thoughts are that you think about, and from there progress can be made. The reason for randomly checking what you are thinking is because it's better to see your thoughts in action than to assume they are a certain way.

When the Thought Thinks

When you have spent some time taking a good look at your every day thoughts, you may find it a little difficult to try to control them. The reason for this is because when you try to rid yourself of those thoughts they come back at you with full force. It's like trying to rid your lawn of weeds—when you try to remove them but fail to get to the root, you will have only disturbed them, and once they have been disturbed, they will grow back full force.

The root of your thoughts is always the belief. In order to rid the belief you must, first of all, discover it. Then you must place a new belief in place of the one you want to remove, which we have already discussed. So when you think about the lawn theory, once the root has been pulled, you must then fertilize the lawn to stop the growth of more weeds, and maybe sprinkle some grass seed to make the lawn lush and green.

Now the fertilizer is like your new belief. The grass seed is like your thoughts, you allow new fresh ones to grow in the lawn, and now take over. And if you happen to get a weed, you just allow the grass to smother it and not aggravate it.

You cannot try to rid yourself of negative thoughts, for you will only cause more thoughts that are the same to come to you. You must begin thinking just a few more better thoughts on a daily basis. Though much of this, if not all, will usually be taken care of when the belief has changed, just a little tender loving care will be required.

TLC

When you are examining your thoughts you're going to realize that there may be many self-destructing ones there. One of the worst things that you can do to yourself is begin criticizing yourself even more because these thoughts are present. Instead, if you would begin telling yourself that, "These are my thoughts at this time and I know that if I let them be they will dissolve. I will just tell myself that they came without me knowing and they will fade without me knowing."

You see what you are doing is you are not giving the self-destructive thoughts any power. You are letting them go by just letting them be and at the same time you are allowing yourself to accept exactly where you are.

At this time even though you are accepting these negative thoughts doesn't mean you are telling them to stay, rather you are giving yourself permission to accept them, which is needed in order to have them dissolved. You are not trying to push them away, which will only cause them to remain and flourish.

Think About It

Whenever you have let any negative thoughts just be and have not forced them away, there is a process to perform to stop them entering your mind at any time. This process is so simple, and somewhat entertaining, that it will be hard for you to fathom at first until you see how well it is working for you to keep control of those pesky thoughts.

What you do is when you notice a negative thought of any kind dominating your mind you, instead of trying to push it away or replace it, choose to think about it. However you go about thinking about it is really up to you. You could think the exact thought over and over in your head, which will lead you to not remember what you were thinking about. You could decide to take a few minutes, about five, to focus upon that thought. Think about everything you can think of about that thought. This will allow you to view the thought in a different perspective and eventually have it dissolved. Another thing to do is to force the thought to become more. Really focus as much as you can upon that thought to let it become stronger. In doing so, you will then draw a blank and you will not know what the thought is any longer, for it will no longer be there.

Many people have been trying to force their negative thoughts away and force positive ones in there place, but you just can't force anything into place. The way it will work best is to let things be—then you allow change.

Power of Thoughts

When you feel you should not give any thought to negative thoughts, what you are doing is giving more power to them. It's saying that your negative thoughts have more strength to create than positive ones. When in fact a positive thought—one that feels good when thought about—will always have more power in it because your inner self is guiding you towards them. And anywhere your inner self leads you will always have more power than where it's trying to guide you from.

No longer give self-destructing thoughts the attention you are trying to remove. When a thought is being forced away, or forced in, it only causes what is being pushed away or forced in to multiply. This doesn't just work for your thoughts; it works exactly the same for your emotions and every desire.

What you must begin to do is trust your inner self, and allow yourself to stop pushing so hard against what you don't want and stop pushing so hard against what you do want.

5

A Power Desire

Whenever you desire something you are in that moment desiring improvement in your life. Everything that you have ever wanted was wanted because you thought that whenever you had it, it would improve your life at that time.

Wanting of anything is what gives you life force. It's what makes you become passionate. It's what brings excitement into your body. It's what drives your very existence.

Whether a desire is considered large or small, the life in it is all the same, as well as the obtaining of it or not.

Desires spring from you all day everyday, whether you are aware of this or not. And within every desire comes in a new desire. You continue to want more once you get more and that's what makes life worth living. You are just starting to live until you understand the power of your desire.

When You Have a Desire

In just about every minute of everyday you desire something, whether it is a good chat with a friend, or the arriving at your destination, or even just to have a good feed of food. All of these are desires that you encounter each day and there are many more that are just a part of your basic day. These desires tend to go unrecognized for the reason that you expect to receive them without any doubt.

Every time that you expect your desire without any doubt, and pretty much give little thought to what you want—except the initial choosing of that desire—what you want immediately comes to you with just as much effort as the thought that originally created the desire. Now the only reason for that is there is an absolute expecting that you will have what you want at that time.

There are so many desires that you receive each and every day that you never give any notice to them. But if you would pay attention, just a little, you would begin to understand just how desires are formed by you and received by you also.

The Making

How all desires are created is the same in every moment. You are producing new desires in every waking hour you are alive. It may seem as though a desire must be something that you have a yearning for, such as wanting something because you are uncomfortable or unsatisfied with what you currently have. However, a desire is anything that you want, big or small, important or unimportant. A desire is to make you feel better than now.

Take for example the desire to have a good feed. You know that the food will make you feel better when you are hungry. So every desire that you desire has the possibility of making you feel better, and making you feel comfortable and satisfied. That's the reason for all things wanted.

Out of the many desires that you hold, it may seem to you that the big things that you want are the only desires you have. In most cases the big desires you hold are the ones you make more difficult to obtain. This of course will always be because of the beliefs you hold about obtaining the larger desire.

When You Want

Anytime you have a desire for something you become more than you were. Your soul feels it, your inner self feels it, and so do you. The thing that happens is that every part of you begins to live more, and it feels as though everything around you is full of more life force.

People think that setting goals to accomplish something is what drives them to live more. However, that is only a part of the reason; there are flaws in that idea. Having the desire is what the goal is. When people set goals there is always a time limit to reach the desired desire, and when there is a time limit there is pressure with self-criticism to follow when all plans have not been followed. When this happens it is one of the worst things you do to stop what you want from coming to you.

When you want something you do not need a plan in order to have it, for your soul has already become it and your inner self will show you the steps to getting there. All you have to do is listen, which will be shown later in this book.

So since I said that when you desire something you become more, it's because your soul becomes it—and seeing as your soul is a massive part of you—you become the you you would be with your desire, even though you have yet to obtain it.

What's a Desire?

When you think of wanting something you have an idea that it is something you must be able to see. But what I would like to make clear, before we go any farther, is that a desire is anything that you want.

It's all the material objects. It's money. It's relationships with others, and yourself. It's your body and health. It's your thoughts and beliefs. It's any emotion you want. It is spiritual desires and the wanting of answers. All of everything is a desire.

When You Want

In every place of your life you will continue to want more. You may say, "After I have this, I won't ask for anything else." But when you think back on when you said that, did you stop asking for more? You just cannot stop wanting more.

Your purpose of living is to grow, and in order to grow you cannot stay the same, and to change you must get more. When you desire something you are wanting change, and in that change you are growing and becoming more than you were—so you don't stay the same.

Everything around you changes and grows. Nothing can stay the same, including you.

When Desires Grow

A desire for something will automatically create the same reason for that desire, a desire in all areas of your life. When the desire is born it is only partly a desire, as you want the reason for it to come into every part of your life. What that means is that your desire creates more wanting.

When you, for example, want to change a belief, you also create the desire to change any other limiting beliefs you may have. Or if the desire is to have more money to enjoy, you create the desire to enjoy all other areas of your life more. And even if your desire is to feel good in your body, you automatically create the wanting to feel good about everything. So from your first desire you will continue to want more.

There is no stopping you from wanting more once you have gotten what you've wanted. It will only be a short time until you will want again. But then your desires will be different because you can only want from where you are now, not from where you were.

You cannot continue to compare where you are and where someone else is, for both are constantly changing. When you try to compare it does no good, for you both are coming from two different places to begin with.

What you must begin to understand is that the reason you want something is because you know it will make you feel better than you currently do. And since you will never stop wanting more, you are going to have to find some way of feeling good and feeling satisfied while still desiring more.

Having Desires

Now that you understand how you desire, you should come to realize how wanting plays a massive role in how your life will be. We have discussed how a desire once created creates more wanting. It is also important to understand that when you want something you are also wanting the essence of that desire to come into your life in all other areas.

We touched briefly on this aspect in a previous chapter using the example of wanting more money. The example explained how wanting more money develops into a desire of being safe in your relationships and environment.

So let's recap. The desire for more money brings the essence of the desire to have more freedom within your work and time. It then creates the essence of wanting a big amount of love and intimacy with a partner. It creates the essence of the desire to become in control of your thoughts and emotions. It will create the essence of wanting to feel healthy and safe in your body. It brings the essence of wanting to have more choices and the freedom to choose whichever choice you prefer.

So it isn't really the money itself that you desire, rather it's everything that the money can represent to you. The desire for more money is usually wanted to bring freedom, choices and pleasure into your life through your finances, but also to bring the essence of the money in all other areas. And since it is an essence of a desire that you want—not the actual desire itself—once you let it in, everything else will begin to open up for you as well.

The Power

When you desire something that single desire has so much strength inside it. It transforms everything else in your life that that one desire represents to you. Understanding this will help you when you begin to change your life to the life you want. For at times it may become overwhelming when you feel you have so much to change. So with this understanding you will be able to have a desire, and know that from that, all areas of your life will improve—you and the life you want will come together as one. And as you begin to allow yourself to come together with your desired life, you will come together with your soul as well.

You can never stop dreaming for more as every desire is what keeps you vibrant, alive, and full of passion and excitement. Every desire always creates new and better desires. The more you want from your life, the more you are going to get.

Up until now you may have not wanted for much due to various reasons as you have believed it is unspiritual to want, or wrong to ask for more, or you may have given up wanting what you really want because of multiple disappointments. But once you understand that you and your soul expand and become more than before, you will then know that desiring for more is a request of your soul, your inner self and you.

When you start becoming more aware of your emotions, you will know in every moment which way your desire is. And if you keep on track, disappointment will not be an option.

6

Feelings Feel

Every time a thought is thought, a feeling towards that thought is felt. The feeling will always match whichever belief you have towards what thought you are thinking. Emotions can be easier to identify than thoughts and can also be simpler to direct.

Emotions can only be felt as good or felt as bad, so there can only be one or the other. However, inside them they are either felt better or worse than how they were just felt.

All emotions bring to themselves more emotions that are similar in their feeling. And this is caused because the thoughts bring in more thoughts that are the same.

You cannot ever, not feel anything. You may say at times that right now you are not feeling anything, but in that feeling of not feeling anything you are still feeling a feeling—you must in order to recognize that you are not feeling.

The Inner Self Speaks

Many people have been told to listen to their own guidance or wait until it tells them what to do, but most have never really understood just what their own guidance sounds like. They wait for a sign, or some epiphany, to direct them in the right direction. What they haven't been aware of is that all day long they are given signs and signals, but have chosen to not listen to them. These signs for most people seem too normal to be words spoken to them by their inner self.

The language of your inner self mainly speaks to you through your emotions. At first it tried to speak to you through your thoughts, but over time you began to push thoughts away and disregard them. So after many attempts of your inner self trying to guide you through your thoughts, it moved on and decided since you can never not feel anything, it will get through to you by using your emotions. And since you can't ignore what you feel, like you can ignore your thoughts, it decided this is the best way in.

Now if you have been waiting for some life changing phenomenon to suddenly pop into your life, you may wait a while longer, until of course you have not listened enough that then some epiphany will have to occur as your inner self may have no other choice at getting your attention.

But if your ready, right here and right now to listen to your inner self speaking to you, in its language, its here for you in every moment, by every belief, and by every thought about every desire. Now it is here to stay—your emotions.

Listen

The work of your soul is to become what you want. The work of your inner self is to guide you towards your soul. And your work is to listen and go in the direction your inner self is guiding you.

Now the guidance is easy to follow. You know in every moment which way you are heading by determining whether you feel good or you feel bad. The feeling of feeling good means you are working your way towards your soul and what you desire. When what you are feeling feels bad, you are working yourself away from your soul and away from what you want.

There are many emotions that feel good and many that feel bad. However, there are many that may have felt good at one time, and not so good at another. As well as that, bad emotions can feel worse or better at different times.

There are many emotions on each side of good and bad, far too many to mention. There are also many different words used for the same emotion and each word can mean different things on different subjects. But do not get confused with this as you will begin to become aware of your emotions just by reading this, and you will also gain confidence in your determining on a regular basis just by practice.

Better or Worse

With all the emotions, good ones and bad ones, you have one choice within them—to feel better or to feel worse. All emotions have an emotion that is close to it with either a feeling of a little better or a feeling of a little worse.

When you are feeling an emotion that is feeling extremely good, you are not able to automatically feel an emotion that feels extremely terrible. The same is for when you feel extremely terrible, you can't just automatically feel extremely wonderful. The emotions are too far apart to make that jump, especially if you have been feeling the one emotion for a long period of time.

What you must do is acknowledge where you are right now, and find out how you are feeling. From there ask yourself if you want to feel better or feel worse at this moment. Then inside yourself find something to think about upon your desire that feels just a little better. Try to hold that new better feeling emotion until you feel you want to feel even better than it. Then repeat the process over and over until you have reached a place where you know you feel good and you know that it is good for you.

If you happen to turn and go the other way, into a worse feeling, don't get discouraged, just start again from where you are now. If you accept where you are you will turn the other way soon enough. If you are patient with yourself you will move very quickly.

The Wind at Your Back

The way the wind blows depends on what direction you are heading. The speed of the resistance will depend on how hard you are pushing against it. How fast the push at your back is will depend upon how much you let yourself go with the flow towards what you want.

Just as your thoughts that you think bring about more thoughts that are similar, your emotions do the same. When you feel on top of the world, you will bring about more things that make you feel on top of the world, which is powerful for you. When you feel powerless, with no control, you will bring about more things that will make you feel powerless. So the more you feel an emotion, the more things that bring about that emotion will come to you.

Then when you change what you are feeling, to one that is better or worse, more of that new emotion will be felt now. As you carry on working your way in either of the directions, more of the way you are heading will meet with you.

When you are heading to what you desire, the feeling will become easier to change into an even better feeling. The momentum of the speed will pick up on your way, and that also means that your desire will come quicker. The wind will be at your back—the easier it is, the easier it gets.

Then it must be the same for feelings that feel bad. When you are feeling not so great, you will bring more of that feeling to you. You will continue to feel worse if you focus upon the fact that you don't feel good. The momentum of the bad feelings will increase if you don't make an effort to change the direction you are heading. Little by little life will become harder with less hope of your desires in sight. You will be struggling harder to walk against the wind—the harder it is, the harder it gets.

However, just because you may have been walking against the wind for quite some time doesn't mean it will be hard to turn and go the other way. Your inner self is calling you in the direction that feels good and once you make the decision to turn it will be right there to coach you along the way. There will always be the strength of your soul and inner self when you turn in the direction that feels good. So with just a little effort of thinking something that feels a little better, the resistance of pushing against the wind will ease off, and the momentum of the wind pushing you along will begin to increase because of the strength of its backup.

This doesn't mean that you should be afraid of any emotions that don't feel good, or even give worry to them, for it is just as with your thoughts that were explained earlier. If you have fear about negative thoughts, or bad feelings, that just means that you believe that bad and negative have more power and strength than good and positive, when the power and strength is always on the good side. Proof of that shows in your life—it took you many years to become possibly unhappy or hopeless, but it can take a moment's time to change that.

Feel What You Feel

When you start feeling what you are feeling, you may not even know if what you are feeling has a better feeling or a worse feeling. How you go about figuring it out is by thinking about what you are feeling and become aware of how an emotion makes you think.

All different emotions will bring about different thoughts and vice versa. You will be able to find out if the feeling is better or worse by seeing whether the thoughts around it are thoughts that seem better or worse. It also helps to write down your thoughts if you have trouble figuring this out.

The feelings that will feel better will feel a little freer and lighter. There will be a sense of relief when compared to the previous emotion. When it feels worse, the feeling will feel less freeing and heavier, and you will have a more resistant feeling inside—maybe a knot or sick in your stomach.

When you are identifying how you feel be very honest with yourself. A good thing to do is to make a list of common emotions that you feel ranging from very powerful emotions to the very limited power emotions. Use a thesaurus to help broaden your choice of words.

Arrange your list with the top being the best emotion you can possibly feel and the bottom being the worst emotion you can possibly feel. And with your decision of whether an emotion feels better or worse, line them in order.

You may use as many or as little emotions on your list as you like, but in the beginning it will be easier to use less until you become more aware of what you are doing. You can then add more as time progresses. But do try to keep it to the size of a page for easy viewing.

Now with this list, on a daily basis, look at it and identify how you are currently feeling. Once you have determined where you are on the list, try to move yourself up to the next emotion, or even skip a few if it is easy. Do this regularly until you are able to move into a better feeling easier. You can use your list any time you are having a problem and even just for fun. Keep a copy with you and make sure it is easy to place around. When you are doing this make sure it's enjoyable—be childlike and playful with it.

Feeling What You Want

In order to have what you want you must feel it in some way. Let's say you want lots more money. There is a reason for why you want it and more chances are that you want it because you know it will make you feel better about your life.

So you desire this money and when you think about it, it also makes you feel happy and free. Now that is the same feeling as the feeling you have when you think of your reason for wanting it.

That may not make sense to you, but think about it this way. Your desire for wanting the money is because you know you will have a better life when you know its there with you. So the emotions you would feel of having your desire would be at the top of the list of emotions, plus your soul waits for you there.

Now here you are giving off this desire and not allowing yourself to be in the same place of emotions as where your desire and soul wait for you. You keep yourself stuck in whatever emotions you have about it being too difficult to have and get this money—which will of course be because of the belief that you hold regarding being able to have this money.

Now in order for you to come to the place where your desire is, you must make an effort to get out of whatever emotions you are feeling that are causing you're wanting of the improved place. If you don't make any effort, you will remain without this money. You must make an effort to bring yourself into the place where your desire is good and feels good as well.

Desires feel good and when you don't, they can't match. The only thing you will continue to get is more things in your life that are the same as the emotions that you usually feel. If it's bored, you will get more bored. If its love, you will get more love. If its wealth, you will get more wealth. If it's no money... well, you get the idea.

Feelin' It

Your desires radiate from you a sense of bliss when you desire them. At that moment you feel a piece of joy—the joy of what life would, and will, be like with whatever your desire is.

Since there is that feeling of joy from them, you must get yourself out of whatever negative emotions are there that caused the creating of your desire to begin with. That is what holds you apart from what you want every time—as well as your limiting beliefs and self-destructing thoughts.

The more you sulk and complain that you never get what you want, the more you will continue to keep what you want from becoming a part of your life. You will just get more things to sulk and complain about to keep you stuck where you are longer.

Your soul is already over there with what you want. Your inner self is calling you in every moment to turn and go the way that your desire waits for you, and all you have to do is give up whatever you feel that is holding you apart from it.

Take time listening to your emotions. The more you do, the more aware you will become of them. Patience may be required. Take time to make your list. Don't worry if you're doing it right or not, for it's only a guideline, and you may find a different approach that works better for you and it doesn't really matter anyways. The main thing is to become aware of what you are feeling and find some way to feel better. You will never again underestimate the power of your emotions.

7

Making a Life

You have beliefs about what you think you are worthy of. You have thoughts about what you think your life is, and those thoughts match what you are worthy of, whether you believe you are worthy of what you desire or not. You have emotions that show you if what you believe is a match to what you desire. All emotions will tell you where you are in regards to what your belief is towards what you want. Your thoughts will follow all beliefs and they are what cause the emotions that you feel, whether your belief is one that supports what you want or one that denies it.

But right now, it doesn't matter what beliefs you believe, for they can be changed in almost a moment's time. If your thoughts are ones that belittle you, it doesn't matter right now either, for they can be stopped. And if what you feel on a regular basis is an emotion you would rather not feel, that doesn't really matter right now either, for every emotion can be directed. The one thing that does matter is you deciding right now that you want to gain the desire to want to change.

You must be patient with yourself and also patient with your desires. You did not get to where you are in one day and you won't get to where you want to be in one day either. However, with just accepting that, along with having the willingness to have patience, your desires will come quicker.

There is always a time to dream. There is always a time to let the dream become what it is. And there is always a time to live the dream. All desires must have their time to become what they are, and live what they have become.

Dream the Dream

Every desire must first be dreamed, because you cannot get anything without first wanting it. We have explained the power of your desires, and now we are going to explain what happens after your desires have been chosen and the effect of changing your belief before they manifest.

Your desires have been chosen by you and for you. You know they will improve your life and just the thought of them is what drives your existence. When a desire is formed you are currently standing in a place you want to improve.

Finding the place of your desired location is now where you are. What that means is that your desire is what it is—a wanting of something. Then because of your desire, you now desire a way of obtaining what you want, and most of the times you desire it in the quickest possible manner. But not always, because a lot of the time you believe that the longer you wait and long for what you want the more deserving you become of having it. So you think over and over about how you can get what it is that you want. You think harder and harder of how to make what you want happen. You begin by making plans, setting goals, writing lists of how-to's and what if's, and as soon as your ready you start working your way to the top. At times that does work for you, but there are many times that you become very unsuccessful at your attempts of getting what you want.

If you did make your list of emotions and you located where you are on a regular basis, in regards to your desire, you will have noticed that you fluctuate back and forward between a few emotions. That is where you are in regards to your desire for the most part.

If instead of trying so hard to get what you want, you would pay more attention to what your emotions are, regarding your desire, you would begin to realize that it's not just your desire that you want, that it is also the desire to feel good about what you want. If you would become aware of what your most dominating feelings are throughout your day, towards everything, you would also realize that you want to feel good right now and that you want to feel good during the time it takes to manifest your desire.

In order for you to feel good right now, you must begin directing your emotions to a place that does feel good, and while doing so, you must think thoughts that feel better and change whatever beliefs you have that are not serving you in the way you would like.

The Time

Every desire has three separate stages. First is the creating, which is choosing what you want. Second is the letting in of your desire. And third is the living of what you've created. The second stage is where most of your effort is required. The third stage may or may not include your desire, for if you failed to let what you want in, you will have let whatever your dominating belief is in instead.

If for example you desire a loving partner—step one complete. Your thoughts of getting your love are ones, such as this person is hard to find, all of them are the same, not the one for me, love fades so why go through the bother and pain again, and I'm sick of looking and trying. The emotions you may feel are frustration, disappointment, impatience and hopeless. Your main belief could be that no one could love me. Now for stage two you have made no effort to change your thoughts, feelings and belief towards what you want. No lover—stage three complete.

If you would have changed your belief to one that you will live in harmony with one who loves you, and you them, you would change the outcome completely. So either way you will live stage three, however, the results will always be that of your belief—the root of your outcome.

Why a Belief Matters

In the example just given, the belief was that the lover could not be made to come into the life. If a belief is that something wanted is sort of impossible, what the outcome must be is that what is wanted stays away. Instead what is lived is an exact match to what the belief is. This is the reason that all of a person's life is what it is, whether they are living desires of the past or still longing for them.

It always boils down to the belief you hold about your desire being possible to be lived by you. You can try to think what's best and move yourself into better emotions all day, but if you don't change your belief—when it's anything less than knowing that what you want is yours—what you want can't come. The belief is the core reason that everything in your life is the way that it is, including everything that is still to come.

However, don't let that have you come to the conclusion that your thoughts and emotions don't play a major part in the life you have, and the making of the life you want.

The Circle of Life

In every creation there is a thought, a belief and an emotion. Beliefs, thoughts and emotions all work in tune together to create what your life is, and what it will be. Thoughts come first, beliefs come second and emotions come third. It doesn't really matter whichever one you decide to change first, for each one leads on to the next. Even when you begin with the third, emotion, it's a circle that has no beginning or no end.

Thoughts are placed first because they have to be thought about in order to form a belief, and they must also be thought first for an emotion to be felt. Beliefs are second only because the thought must be thought first, but they can also be first because they cause what you feel about your desires, and they are also the root of your thought. Then emotions follow those thoughts, but when turned the other way, emotions find and create thoughts. Also when emotions start first, the belief becomes understood and recognized, and the emotions also make the thoughts intensify toward the belief.

Which one comes first, beliefs, thoughts, emotions—none really—but the beliefs are what glue everything together. Beliefs are the root of what you get. The belief is the core. So it doesn't matter if you change one or the other first, because by just looking at one closer it will make understanding and recognizing the other two easier and clearer. Just pick one and begin, everything else will follow. Everyone is different, so that's why there is no such rule as where to start. And every issue is different, so determining your emotions may be easier in one area and finding your thoughts could be easier on another. The important thing is, is that you begin somewhere.

The Joy of It

When it comes to your life you tend to take things far too serious. You try so hard to make yourself happy. You look at every flaw in yourself and you focus most of your attention on things in your life that need improvement. You tend to nit-pick at the smallest details of life. You zoom in on particulars in an effort to try to make everything perfect. But if you would, for just one minute, zoom out from the details of life and get a glimpse of the larger picture. In doing so you would come to feel how nothing is as important as you make it out to seem.

When you are zoomed out from the small details, try to take a look at your life from a new perspective. Look at it in a way that everything in it is unfolding perfectly. For a few minutes everyday take a glance around you, and become aware of everything that is wonderful and pleasing. Take notice of the great things in your life, for they were your at one time desire that you let in, and are now living. It doesn't matter how small or insignificant you think these things are, just relish in them anyways. But if they seem hard to find, know that once you have the desire to begin to notice them, they will begin to appear.

In your moment of noticing and becoming aware of these things you can, instead of being grateful for them, take them being there for granted. When you feel you should be grateful for them there is a sense of fear that they could be taken from you. Being grateful can also hold a background essence that you don't actually deserve what you have. However, when you take them being there for granted you are expecting them to be there—and yes, that's correct, they should be there. They were your desire at one time, and you let them in, therefore you should be living them and expecting them to be there. When you are noticing the good things that surround you, you are in that very moment appreciating them. Acknowledging, appreciating and expecting are the perfect combination to keep the good around, and get more of it.

When doing this be light-hearted and have fun. You don't necessarily have to take time out to do this, as it's more of an awareness, so it can be done anytime or anywhere. Open up to more of the good things in your life—you will instantly feel joyful when you do.

Back or Forward

You tend to move forward with your desires when you make an effort to change a belief, stop a thought, or move an emotion. Then you have a tendency to move yourself back by asking where what you want is and looking for evidence of your beliefs working to fulfill your desires. When you complete stage one, you have created your desire. When you change beliefs, thoughts and emotions you are in the process of stage two. In order to complete stage two, you must let go of what you want. Let go and still desire what you want.

By letting go you release your desire and any need for it. You may feel that if you let it go, you let go of what you want also, but you don't. Rather you release the tension you feel in the needing of what you want. You let the wind carry you to what you want, so to speak.

Many people have a hard time letting go. The easiest way to do it is to acknowledge that you have a desire that still hasn't come. Then look around at where you are and know that where you are is a good place, and that everything is perfectly fine just the way it is. Then know for yourself that what you want will be yours, and since you know this, it doesn't matter when and how you get your desire. Everything is then fine, and since what you want will be yours, there is no rush.

Letting go is one of the quickest ways to getting what you want. So if you'd stop checking back on your progress and just let it work itself out, without your interfering, what you want will be yours.

The Beginning of Change

Every desire must have time to come. There is first the making of what you want, which is when you choose what your desire will be. Then before you can live it, you must let it into your life by changing any beliefs that are less than knowing that you can live your desired life.

Make it a point to check what thoughts you think throughout your day, and become aware of the emotions you feel as well, for they are going to be guiding you towards the life you want to live. Thoughts and emotions are also going to lead you directly to the belief that you currently hold regarding what you want, and everything else in your life for that matter.

Once you have recognized what your belief, thoughts and emotions are on what you are wanting to have or loose, you must let any need or longing go. You must let go of what you want. Stop pushing it away from you. Once you let go, what you want will come to you quickly, and then you will be living your once desire.

When making all this change be easy about it, and have fun with it, and yourself. If you're not easy about it, it's the same as letting your desire in—if you don't, it keeps it away—and you must let in your change, because really it's a desire also.

You have the strength to do this and some things may take some time, but that time is only how long it takes you to make the effort and let it in. If you must, begin with issues that aren't as important to you so you can gain confidence and have a better understanding of this. Seeing it for yourself will change a belief of sceptical to believing.

8

Putting NOW First

A lot of controversy has been made about the power of this now moment. Some say that you must keep yourself centred throughout the day by staying in this now moment, however, you do not need to make any effort to be in this now. In every second you are in the now—you cannot be otherwise.

You are now as you are reading this, although you may find yourself thinking other than the words you are reading, and yet you are still in this now moment as you think other than you are reading. Although you can never not be in this moment, there are exercises to enhance where you are and create a better now for the future now, which is still to come.

Where You Are Now

In this now moment there is an open power. Everything that happens, happens right now. Every thought that is thought, is thought now. Every emotion that is felt, is felt now. And every belief you currently believe, is believed right now. Now since everything happens now that must mean that all power is then in this moment.

That is why you must ask yourself what your beliefs currently are in regards to things you want to change, and what are your thoughts today, as well as what do you feel in this moment.

With the power always being in this moment, that's why past beliefs have no strength to create, and why past thoughts have no power to take over current ones. All emotions only have the ability to be felt now, and that's why you can easily direct them to where you want them to be without any emotion still felt from the previous emotion.

Understanding that beliefs, thoughts and emotions only power is what they are right now will help you to know that beliefs, thoughts and emotions of yesterday, and even a minute ago, have no power in the creating of your life. You can move on easily with what you want them to be with no fear of the past creeping in. This is when you understand the power of now in this moment.

Childs Play

Children are wonderful at having fun and imagining what they want. They make up scenes in their minds of wonderful things they are wanting. They have conversations with others even though no one is around. The words spoken are just exactly as they want them to be. They feel great freedom and pleasure in doing this. They come to believe that what they are imagining is real. They then go to tell an adult about what they just did, excitedly explaining the joy they felt. The adult then tells them, "That's great, but it's just your imagination. As you grow up you will understand its just make believe and not real at all." That is how you have come to believe that your imagination has no power, when in fact everything is first imagined in your mind before it comes into your life—all things, good and bad, wanted and not wanted.

As a result of the beliefs you have picked up, and because of TV and the media, even stories of others, you have become accustomed to imagining the bad and worst scenes in your mind, and any imagining of good fortune is believed to be unreal. Since you hear more of the bad from outside sources, you tend to believe that bad is real and the good is false, however, they both are very real and both have creating power. As with your thoughts, you don't need to push them away. Imagine the scene out instead, and begin to plant new scenes that you want to have happen in their place.

A Game to Play

To take you away from all the negative scenes you play out in your mind, there is a game to play where you envision what you want. This game is to be played with an open mind and childlike attitude.

Now think about what it is that you want, and with that in mind, come to feel how every ounce of power you have is in this moment. Recognize that your new life begins in this moment, with your new creation.

Then think about what you want and imagine what your life is like with what you want. Feel anything that feels like what your life is like with your desire there. Don't think about what you are living now. No thoughts of lack or difficulty. No feelings of it being impossible. Just for this time, let yourself imagine what you want in the most fun way that you can. Feel the freedom in your mind, and enjoy this time to play.

If you happen to go into negative scenes, or trying to figure out how-to's, just let them slip away and bring yourself back to your intention of playfully imagining your desire being lived by you right now. And if you still happen to go into negative, simply stop the game and start again a little later when you have understood the purpose of being childlike and light-hearted about it.

Do this every day for about two weeks, for five to ten minutes a day. When you have finished playing the game do not give any thought as to whether it is working or not. Don't think about it until the next day when you will imagine it again. You may need more time than two weeks, but two weeks minimum.

When you are imagining what you want make sure to become wrapped up in the moment and really feel intimate about it. Then throughout your day do one small thing that matches your desire, not action towards it, but rather a small act that says you are now living what you want.

But remember to be easy about it, for it's just a game–or is it?

Peace Inside and Out

So much of many of our lives are bombarded with the hustle and bustle that we tend to put on our shoulders. Much of it is us not allowing ourselves time to tend to ourselves. Many of us tend to believe that in order to live life with a purpose we must constantly be on the move, go here and doing that, with no time to settle ourselves except during the hours of sleep. Many may even believe that to take time out and do nothing is a waste of precious time, when in fact the opposite is true.

The more time you take to do nothing, but just sit and relax, and feel your body breathing and feel the energy that surrounds you, inside and out, the better. By simply doing this it will begin to diminish emotions, such as anger and resentment, shame and guilt, bitterness, worry, and even depression. And the more often you do this, the more energized and in control you will feel.

When you are running around doing so much you don't have the time and energy, or even the desire, to feel what it would feel like to become in tune with yourself.

The benefits of intentionally calming down and listening to your body breathe, are that all negative emotions will begin to subside. It's such a simple task to do, but with unbelievably rewarding results.

In The Moment

Find a quite place for yourself. It can be anywhere where you will have ten to twenty minutes without being interrupted. Sit or lay down, whichever is more comfortable. Set your intention to calm down, to relax, and to take this time to think about nothing.

Start by closing your eyes and taking a few deep breaths. Slowly and deeply inhale, and exhale, with each being similar in length. Now realize that everything begins in this moment, and ends in this moment. Know that right now is where your power comes from. Begin to feel how every breath feels inside your body. Feel with each breath how you become calmer and at peace with where you are. Feel with each breath how you become more aware and in control of your mind, and of your life. Feel the energy of life that surrounds you. Feel that this is the moment that change begins. Feel that this is you now—feel it.

If you have thoughts running around in your mind, let them come in, and just think them away—release them.

You may feel a tingling sensation or a numbing of your body and mind. You may feel your heart like never before. You may get a sensation of pleasure. You may feel nothing noticeably different. You could feel calm and peaceful. Whatever it so happens to be that you feel during this time is fine, even if it is slightly negative, because at this time everything is okay.

Each time that you do this practice a different sensation may arise, or every time could be the same. Ideally you should do this every day; however, at times you won't. So be kind to yourself, and make an intention to practice as much as you can—a little is better than none at all. You will notice that the results will be of you being more alert, calmer, and at peace with where you are. Do this process for ten to twenty minutes and rotate the times to anywhere between those numbers. Different times will give different sensations. Enjoy this time and enjoy yourself.

Nowhere Else

You can never escape the now moment. Every second is a new now. Every thought that is thought, is thought now. Every emotion that is felt, is felt now. And every belief that you believe, is being believed now. Since everything is done in this now moment that must mean that now is the only time you get. This moment is the only time you have.

Now is the time to think about what you want. It's now that you desire change. It's now that you want more. It's now that you find your beliefs. It's now that you recognize what you think about. It's now that you feel what you want to feel. It's now that you feel and become aware of who you are. Its now that you know that this moment is all there is.

You cannot create in the future, only for the future. You cannot be in the past, only view it from now. Now is where your power lives.

9

Living By What You Want

With every thought that has ever been thought, there is a massive sort of cloud that becomes what the universe is. With every new idea that is formed by thoughts, the universe itself becomes larger. Since you are a part of the universe, every thought you think, and every idea you form, you also become larger, as well as your soul. And every time you go in the direction of where you're inner self leads you, you grow even more than the growth that is caused by just your thoughts and ideas. This is what is meant when your growth is the purpose of being.

Your soul lives to grow, and so do you. When you allow the growth you feel the connection that is made, and when you don't go with the growth you feel a tearing apart inside you.

Beginning and End

There is no beginning or end in the universe. There is no time that started it and no end to finish it, but there is the start of everything in it, and an end to those things that were started. Those things will continue to grow and evolve, and from that moment of growth they are no longer the same. The growth begins a new as it finished an old.

As you are a part of the universe that means there is no time that you began and no time that you will end—that is the soul part of you. And the you that you know yourself to be is the piece of the universe that begins and ends. You know this beginning and ending, for you were born here and you will leave here sometime also. But there is much more beginning and ending than you may know.

First off there is the renewal of your body, which we will not discuss at this time. There is within every desire the beginning of it and the end of it. The beginning of a desire is the moment that it is first thought, and the end of it is the moment that you live it. For once you live it, you no longer desire it—the desire has ended. The person you were before you desired it ended at that first thought of it, and began a new during the allowance period of the desire. And once the desire manifested, that newer you ended and began an even newer you once that desire was lived.

There's More

Since you change and become new every time you desire anything—even for that good feed—you continue to grow and never stop. Then with every desire there is always a new and better desire, even if what you want hasn't come to life for you yet, for there are always new desires formed just from the desire in the first one, so to speak.

Think right now when there was a time that you said, "If I get that, I will never want for anything again." When the time came that you lived what you wanted, did you ever want anything after it? That just goes to show you that you can never stop wanting more.

Within every desire you are ending a part of you and beginning a new part. Every time you desire something you become larger and you become more. You expand every time you let yourself live what you have desired, and you become even larger than the already expanded you were during the desiring. Every time that you live your desire your soul becomes much more than it was—it ends and begins a new. When your soul becomes larger and when it becomes more, the universe evolves and becomes more as well. This is a never-ending process.

You may not believe that your desires alone have the power to move and shift the universe, but if you could just grasp this knowledge to a certain degree, it would help you understand just how powerful you really are. It would help you understand just how simple and uncomplicated life really is. If you would understand it, the life you want will be much easier to obtain than you may have been lead until now to believe—but the life you want will always continue to grow from the place that it just ended from.

Souls Desire

Inside every person, and inside every animal, plant, and living thing, there is an inner self. An inner self that guides each to the connection of who they are and to the soul they were born from.

Animals and nature have no resistance to the calling of their inner self, so they listen wisely and go where their inner self is leading them. They feel at one with themselves and at one with their soul. That is why taking a walk in nature is so enjoyable.

We on the other hand have always looked at nature in awe and amazement at the animals' natural instincts and the continual growth of forests, land and the seas and mountains. Nature just does its thing. It trusts without any doubt the guidance it receives.

We have let ourselves trust in the growth of nature, but have forgotten that we are as much a part of nature as any animal, forest, land or sea. We are as much a part of the universe as any planet or star.

Your soul's purpose is to continue the growth of the universe, and your soul calls to you to continue your growth. That's the reason why you feel so much more alive and full of life—why you dream to want—and you feel even more alive when you go in the direction of your desire.

The reason you feel there should be more when you have settled for less is because your purpose for growth is at a stand still, and your soul stands still as well. This then causes a sort of gap between where you are and where your soul is, and also a gap between where your soul is and where its wants to be.

When You Listen

Your soul becomes the you you would be with what you want. Your soul is the you with the relationships that you want. It is the you with the money that you want. It is the you with the house that you want, the location you want, and the climate that you want. It has the car, the job, the business that you want. It has the wisdom and knowledge that you desire. It has the passion that you want. It has the joy that you want. It has the freedom that you want.

Your soul holds with it each and every desire you have—not desires that have been obtained, for you both have already grown because of these, they have already been done. So as you make a simple shift in what you believe, think and feel, all those desires that your soul holds will also be lived by you.

Your inner self is calling you constantly in the direction of your soul, for all parts of you wants to go. The benefits of going are that, first off, you will feel good—you will feel better than ever before. Second is that you will get to live and be your desires. Third is that you will continue the growth of not just yourself but the growth and expansion of your soul. And lastly, the universe will thrive on you going with your desires.

There are many reasons to go with your desire. So if the expansion of your soul and the universe isn't exactly your reason to go, then living your desires should be. Living what you want, and just feeling pretty good about yourself, should be a good enough reason to listen to what you hear and go.

When You Don't listen

The pleasure and love you feel when you go to where your soul stays is what you would call perfect harmony from within and from without. Every time you are there you will feel your own power and serenity. You will be joyful in your life and your outside manifestations, as well as those from within, will show themselves to you that you are.

When you don't listen, however, your manifestations will not be quite as pleasing. Your inner world will suffer with struggle and hardship. And of course, that will depend on the intensity of how hard your inner self is working at getting you turned around. When you don't listen, your soul and inner self have to work overtime at trying to get your attention.

At first, when you ignore the guidance, mildly negative emotions will be felt, followed by mildly annoying and frustrating turn-ups in life. If that is not being listened to, more negative emotions that are quite hard to ignore surface, and with them will cause even more severe negative situations in your life. And when that calling is not being listened to, your inner self has no choice but to bring in emotions of unworthiness, depression and powerlessness. You will feel emotions of the utmost worst, and your manifestations will be a perfect match of what those emotions are.

But as we have discussed already that if you make even the slightest shift and go where your inner self is calling you, it will be easier than pushing the other way because you always have the strength of it and your soul.

Your inner self will not guide you to a place that is too far from where you currently are, and it will never guide you to a place that feels less good than where you are either. But it will, at times, have to bring circumstances and events that you won't be able to not listen to. Because at times that is the only way it can get your attention.

The Universe Adores You

The universe thrives by your desires and it thrives even more when you live them. Then you desire something else from the new place that you stand.

You become more. You know more. You live more. You want more. You get more. That is you growing.

Your soul grows and becomes more. It lives off of your desires. It becomes them. It is them. It is you.

The universe grows and it becomes more. It lives off of your desires. It expands with each desire. It becomes the desire also. It simply adores you when you send it a new desire that it needs for its continuous growth.

Your soul lives from you. You are both one, and you are both one with the universe. Your soul craves you to want more, so it can become more, to contribute to the expansion and growth of the universe. You and your soul and the universe—they want it and you want it—so isn't it a good time to go with it.

10

Very Big Change

Young Murphy believed that that freezer would freeze him. He had no doubt that that night was to be his last. He gave up and had no other choice but to let his belief about knowing he wouldn't survive a night stuck in that freezer dictate his fortune.

Had Murphy of known he could change his belief, he would have taken time to calm his thoughts and let go of his panic of emotions. He would have then realized that that freezer was not freezing but rather it was a quite comfortable temperature to spend an evening in.

Murphy believed himself to his death!

Now what do you believe yourself to? Is it what you want? Is it what you fear? Is it what you believe?

The Thing to Do

With the advice given in this book it will mean nothing, or serve no purpose to you, if you firstly believe that it is nonsense, and that life is what it is and you get what you get because life works that way without your control of what happens. This book will have no impact on you if you decide to read it as you would a novel, simply reading the words from start to finish, without allowing the words to sink in and without taking a look at your life in relationship to everything that has been mentioned here. And you will not see improvement fully until you practice the processes that have been laid out here.

As well as putting this book into practice you must be willing to learn and open up to yourself more. You must be willing to accept where you are and accept that you got there because of your beliefs, thoughts and emotions. Once you accept that, you automatically stop blaming, which robs you of your power, and you take back your power and realize that its strength is all you need.

To allow this book to have the benefits that you wanted, from your reasons of reading it, you must realize that your worry of anything only causes more worrying, or even worse situations. You must realize also that any of your complaint of how things are, only causes you to stay where you are and have more to complain about. Both of these get you no where near where you want to be. Even if you have all the justification to back up your worrying or complaining, you will only be justifying yourself around the same circle.

Feeling It

Whatever it is that you want, you can have and live. But it is of no use to have the desire of change without making some effort of feeling how your life would be like with what you want. If you are going to desire something and you are going to make an effort to change your beliefs, thoughts and emotions, all of that work will mean nothing if you continue to complain about where you are and constantly state the fact that your desire is nowhere in sight.

What you must do, along with all the other advice given to you in this book, is you must let yourself feel what your desire feels like at least once a day. This is not a hard task to fulfill.

All you do is, for a few minutes, feel like you are already living your desire. Take your mind away from your current life and do as a child would do if they were making up some game.

If its money you want, playfully think about how your life would be with it. What would you buy? What would you do? Where would you go? Look for those around you with it and allow yourself to feel pleased for them—they once stood where you are.

If its love you want, feel the presence of that person around you. You don't know who they are yet, but all you know is that they are going to be wonderful and precious, and you can feel their being around you. Look for those in love and say, "That's lovely." The same goes for friends and careers.

If you want knowledge, feel that you don't know just yet what you know, but you just know that you know it.

If it's your body shape or size you want to change, imagine and feel it becoming what you want to see. See others with what you want with pleasure and genuine happiness.

If its good health you desire, feel again what you and your body felt like in those carefree times. Look upon those with vital health and glow with pure delight.

If feeling good is what you want, then playfully feel what it would feel like to feel good.

This list can go on and on, but just feel what your desire feels like and make a point to look for those living it, through your eyes, with pure pleasure and joy. No envy or jealousy, just being pleased for them, for they are the ones giving you evidence that your desire can be created and lived. There is so much evidence of what you want already around you to see; you just have to open yourself up to seeing it.

Wanting To Want

There is so much of life to be enjoyed. There is so much creating to create. There are so many dreams to dream. There is so much more desires for you to live.

Up until this point you have set limits on what dreams you will live and what dreams will continue to be just dreams, and not a life lived by you. But now you know how to make every desire a life for you.

Once you obtain your current desires, you will be beginning a new life and a new you. You will have a whole new world of your own to dream new dreams. New desires that you have never imagined before will be your new now place.

Everything is a desire, and even no desire is a desire—it's a desire not to desire. You can't stop yourself from the nature of desiring. Even when you do not desire to have something—meaning you do not want it—you still desire not to have it.

Since you cannot escape desiring, should you not begin instead to focus your desires then to the ones you want to live?

Believe – Think – Feel

You can decide whether living the life you want is important enough to you to make simple changes in your beliefs, thoughts and emotions. The results, if you do so, will be priceless. But it's your choice, and it has always been your choice.

You will know how it is that anything in your life, up until now, has come. You will see the pattern of how your life has unfolded was in exact correlation to the beliefs you believed at that time, to the similar line of thoughts that you thought at that time, and to the most dominant emotions you felt at that time.

Take a glance back at past experiences—good times and bad times—and remember what your beliefs, thoughts and emotions were at that time. I don't mean what they were once what was created was being lived, but rather the time that was leading up to what was being lived.

If you look at your list of emotions you will notice that what was then being lived was an exact match to what your dominating emotions were before what was being lived was lived. Through looking at your past emotions you will be able to get a clear view of what your thoughts were in line with, and from that be able to find the belief that brought about the creation.

Most times when people look to their past they look to the bad. So don't just look at the bad, look back on your successes too. Even try to bring what was there here. But don't do too much of this because the past is in the past, where there is no power. The main reason for this process is to have you see exactly how you are the creator of your life. And when you know that, you take your power back and keep it.

Get Going

The whole universe becomes more with every single desire that is set forth. You become more as well, and grow because of it. Nothing gets to stay the same. Everything in your world and everything in this universe evolves.

The land changes; animals change; the sky changes; your skin and hair changes; your appearance changes; your inner body changes; your thoughts change; your beliefs change; your emotions change; everything changes. Since everything is changing, change it to what you want it to be.

Choose which way your changes will take you. Choose which beliefs you will change. Choose which thoughts will be the ones thought by you. And choose very carefully which emotions you will feel.

Take control of your life; when you do, you will find the power that resides inside you and you will always feel safe and protected.

Know that your soul is along with you for this journey. So go with the flow of life and evolve with your soul, for it waits for you.

Your inner self calls you forward, and when you all meet that feeling of ecstasy will be what you move towards. It will not be the living of your desires that you go for, but rather it will be the natural feeling of bliss that you do it for. It will be the journey of getting there that will be fun. And each time you arrive at that place where your soul lives, the orgasm of it will be intensified. And an added bonus of it will be that you and your desires will be living in perfect harmony together, creating more dreams to move towards. But you have got to let yourself go with it to live it.

Everything Else

The only thing that stays the same is how every creation is made, everything else must evolve. You are the only one that has the power to create your life. Not one other person, or one other outside force, has any control over your life and what happens to it. It may only seem that something else has the power to make your life, but that is only because you have chosen to believe it's out of your hands. Having an understanding of the information given to you in this book will allow you to know the strength of the power that resides inside of you. Life will then become easier for you and your life will become free.

The power of every creation is always in the belief, but the thoughts and emotions are what create the belief. When you change a belief, everything else will change. When you change a thought, everything else will change. When you change an emotion, everything else will change.

Begin with, "I believe I can change my beliefs. I believe I can change my thoughts. I believe I can change my emotions. I believe I can feel better. I know I can feel good."

Allow yourself to be easy on yourself while making change. Allow yourself to change a belief with ease. Allow yourself to change your thoughts effortlessly. Allow yourself to let your thoughts be. And finally, allow yourself the relief to feel good.

Know that you can remember that the power is always in this moment.

Your desire to change is in itself a power desire. When you change one thing, everything else follows—the easier it gets, the easier it gets.

Your life has always been yours, you will only enhance it.

Others will look at you and will see your glow. They will ask you why you are so joyful, and you will say, "I changed a belief, and I began to know my freedom."

You're Free

In every desire there is a sense of freedom. You choose your desires for you know that your life will be more. You know they will make you feel good once you have them. They are what drive your very existence. But you must learn how to feel good towards the getting of them.

It's all in the journey there, for once you have obtained what you want, you will then begin again from your once desired, now lived place, to desire more. You will meet your soul and then work at meeting it again, for its always one step ahead of you. And when you listen to your inner self along the way, you will never feel lost or empty; you will always know where you are.

Knowing that you can change any belief gives you the freedom you have always wanted. Knowing that your thoughts can be controlled easily, and that negative ones can be diminished when no force to push them away is used, gives you relief that your negatives have not all power to take over. When you know that your emotions can be directed and moved through easily, you will find that joy is a natural place to be.

When you know that you make your life what it is, and that you can change it at any moment, you will have found your power. You will feel your joy. You will know your freedom.

