

Introduction:

This book is being written for those who have been left behind after the Rapture takes place on September 23, 2015. It is my intention to show you from the Scriptures that this event was scheduled, and always has been scheduled, for this exact date according to the Scriptures.

I know what some of you are already thinking... I thought NO ONE knew, or could ever know, the "day or hour" that the Rapture would take place. I will address this in chapter 8 of this book, and if you try to skip to chapter 8 for answers, you may not understand it very well. This book is being built word by word, line by line, chapter by chapter, to help you understand what the Scriptures are saying in regards to the "day and hour" a.k.a. the "Day of the Lord".

The Lord hid prophecies throughout the Old and New Testaments, like gems, waiting for us to find them and put them all together to see the whole picture of His plan for mankind. When we take just one piece, or one Scripture, we cannot see the whole picture that the Lord has painted for us so masterfully in His Word. Scripture interprets Scripture. We must put all of the Scriptures together, all of the pieces of the puzzle together, before we can see the whole picture. To take only one or two pieces of the puzzle and say that we can see the whole picture, is just not true. We need ALL of the pieces in order to see the whole picture.

I will attempt to make this book as simple to read and as easy to follow as possible, in case you are not familiar at all with the prophecies of the Bible. For those of you who have been left behind and who are well-read in Biblical prophecy, the main struggle you will probably have with what I have written will be how the days of Tribulation can just be shortened from 3 ½ years to only one year. This has been my own struggle as well. You will most likely think... how then can the prophecies be fulfilled that clearly say that the Antichrist is given 42 months to rule, and you are saying that this will be shortened to just over one year? Please remember that Scripture interprets Scripture. The Lord put this together like a puzzle, putting some of the pieces in Revelation, some in Daniel, some in Matthew and other pieces just hidden throughout other books of the Bible. The Antichrist being given 42 months is just one piece of the puzzle. You must put that piece together with Revelation 10:6, and Matthew 24:22 and 25:5, where we are told that the days will be shortened and the Bridegroom will be delayed. The Antichrist was to have been given 42 months and the Great Tribulation was to have lasted for 3 ½ years, but if the Lord had allowed that to happen, no flesh would have survived, as Jesus warned us in Matthew 24:22, "And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." Even after just one year of Tribulation, there will be few people left who will have survived what is coming on the "great and dreadful day of the Lord" (see Joel 2:31; Malachi 4:5; Zephaniah 1:14).

Isaiah 13:6-13 Wail, for the day of the Lord is near;  
it will come like destruction from the Almighty.  
Because of this, all hands will go limp,  
every heart will melt with fear.  
Terror will seize them,  
pain and anguish will grip them;  
they will writhe like a woman in labor.  
They will look aghast at each other,  
their faces aflame.

See, the day of the Lord is coming  
—a cruel day, with wrath and fierce anger—  
to make the land desolate  
and destroy the sinners within it.  
The stars of heaven and their constellations  
will not show their light.  
The rising sun will be darkened  
and the moon will not give its light.  
I will punish the world for its evil,  
the wicked for their sins.  
I will put an end to the arrogance of the haughty  
and will humble the pride of the ruthless.  
I will make people scarcer than pure gold,  
more rare than the gold of Ophir.  
Therefore I will make the heavens tremble;  
and the earth will shake from its place  
at the wrath of the Lord Almighty.

Joel 2: 31-32 The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved; for on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be deliverance, as the Lord has said, even among the survivors whom the Lord calls.

This "Day of the Lord" is spoken of all throughout the Old and New Testaments. The Day of the Lord is the Sabbath day, or the 7th day of the week. It is the time for God's people to enter their rest. It is the 7th day of Daniel's 70th week (last year of the final 7 years before Christ returns to the earth). It is also the 1000-year New Millennium, the final 1000 years in God's 7000-year plan for mankind.

I intend to show you from the Scriptures how that the "Day of the Lord" will begin on September 23, 2015, the "Day of Atonement". Most of you reading this book will be reading it after this date and you will have been left behind. I write this for you, so that you can know for certain that what took place was actually the "Rapture", or "Great Escape"* mentioned in the Bible and that it was not something else, such as an alien invasion or intervention of planet earth by extra-terrestrials. The Bible warns us that there will be a great deception** that will happen at this time to try to deceive you into believing a lie about what has happened and is now happening on earth. Jesus wants you to be a witness to others so that they too can come into His Kingdom and be spared from eternal wrath and suffering. You are now living in the final year before Jesus returns to the earth with His people to rule and reign for 1000 years. Make the most of your time and use it to warn everyone you can of what is actually taking place and "snatch others from the fire" (see Jude 1:23). God bless you and we'll see you soon on the other side!

* Luke 21:36 - Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen, and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man.

** 2 Thessalonians 2:11-12 - For this reason, God will send them a powerful delusion so that they will believe the lie. Then all who have not believed the truth but have taken pleasure in unrighteousness will be condemned.

Puzzle Pieces 1 and 2:

"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy." Exodus 20:8

Hebrews 4:9-11 – "There remains, then, a Sabbath-rest for the people of God; for anyone who enters God's rest also rests from their works, just as God did from his. Let us, therefore, make every effort to enter that rest, so that no one will perish by following their example of disobedience."

I'd like to start building the framework for this puzzle by talking about the 7000-year plan of God for mankind.

a) God sets a pattern in Genesis of 7 days - 6 days for creation and 1 day of rest.

b) The Millennium is referred to many times as the "rest".

c) A day is like a 1000 years. Psalm 90:4 says, "For a thousand years in your sight are like a day that has just gone by, or like a watch in the night." 2 Peter 3:8 says, "But do not forget this one thing, dear friends: With the Lord a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day."

d) Another clue is that Hosea 6:1-2 predicts that the restoration of the Jews would occur after 2 "days", which is poised to occur now after 2000 years from Christ's first coming. "Come, let us return to the LORD. He has torn us to pieces but He will heal us; He has injured us but He will bind up our wounds. After two days He will revive us; on the third day He will restore us, that we may live in His presence."

The 7,000 year plan of God has been consistent with Jewish thought for thousands of years. The apostle Barnabus was a partner in ministry to the Apostle Paul (Acts 13:2, Acts 14:14). The Epistle of Barnabus written in the 1st Century explicitly tied the 7 days of creation to Psalm 90:4 and the 7,000 year plan of God. From the Epistle of Barnabas chapter 15, verses 3-5:

He speaks of the Sabbath at the beginning of the Creation, "And God made in six days the works of His hands and on the seventh day He made an end, and rested in it and sanctified it." Notice, children, what is the meaning of "He made an end in six days"? He means this: that the Lord will make an end of everything in six thousand years, for a day with Him means a thousand years. And He Himself is my witness when He says, "Lo, the day of the Lord shall be as a thousand years." So then, children, in six days, that is in six thousand years, everything will be completed. "And He rested on the seventh day." This means, when His Son comes He will destroy the time of the wicked one, and will judge the godless, and will change the sun and the moon and the stars, and then He will truly rest on the seventh day.

The Bible teaches that Christ will return to the earth for a second time at the end of 6000 years, counting from the Creation. It also teaches that Christ will return at the beginning of the "third day", or third Millennium, counting from the time of Christ. "After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight." Hosea 6:2

So, where are we? When does the 6000 years end? When does the 2000 years end? Do we count from the birth of Christ or the death and resurrection of Christ? Well, the 2000-year count could be from either the birth or death/resurrection of Jesus, so the count could end anytime between 1995-2034 A.D. Jesus should return to earth at some point during this time period. But what about the 6000 year count? When does that end?

I believe that we can count the years from Adam until the present day and be fairly accurate in our conclusions about when the 6000 years end. The Lord has laid everything out for us in the Scriptures. Have you ever wondered why the Bible records the ages of people all the way back to Adam? Or why it records the number of years the Kings of Israel ruled? The Lord was giving us the numbers so that we could COUNT the years from Creation and KNOW the approximate time of when the 6000 years would end.

We must keep in mind that when the Bible says that Adam was 130 years old when Seth was born, or that Lamech was 182 years old when Noah was born, that it doesn't mean that they turned that age on the day of their son's birth. In many cultures, including Jewish culture, when someone turns 30, they are considered to be in their 31st year, therefore they consider them to be 31, as opposed to our own culture where we would say they are only 30. In Jewish culture and most ancient cultures, when a baby is born, they were already considered to be ONE; therefore, on what we would call their "first birthday", they would say the child is turning TWO. The same can be surmised when it says a king reigned 45 years, that it is mostly likely saying his term ended in the 45th year, not that he completed 45 full years.

It is crucial that we understand this in order to correctly count the years as laid out in the Bible. If we only count 130 + 150 + 90, etc., we will reach the end of 6000 years somewhere in the 1990's. Obviously, we are past that time and Jesus has not yet returned to earth, so we must understand how the Jewish culture counts years in order to correctly count the years as laid out to us in the Bible. So, when the Bible says that Adam was 130 years when Seth was born, we must understand that he was in his 130th year, therefore he could have completed between 129 years to 129 years and 364 days. Since we do not know exactly his age, we should count that on average, he had completed 129.5 years of living.

The one number you may have a problem understanding is that Terah was in his 130th year when Abraham was born. Genesis 11 mentions that Terah lived 70 years and then gave birth to 3 sons, listing Abraham as the first. However, Abraham was not the eldest of these three sons. Stephen tells us in the book of Acts that Abraham did not leave Haran until after Terah died. Genesis 12 tells us that Abraham was 75 when he left Haran and that his father was 205 years old when he died. We simply need to subtract 75 from 205 to understand that Terah was in his 130th year when Abraham was born. The New Testament helps us to properly understand the Old Testament, and together the Old and New Testaments make up what we call the written Word of God.

I encourage you to go through these numbers in the Bible and verify them for yourselves. If you add them up, you will see that from Creation until the Babylonian invasion of Jerusalem in 586 BC, there were right around 3400 years. Adding 585 to that reaches 1 BC. Then adding 2015 years to that number, and you will see that we are right at the end of the 6000 year mark, give or take a few years. We are right there. This is the outer framework of this puzzle. From here, let's start with some of the major pieces. These pieces include Year of Jubilee and the 70 weeks of Daniel. We'll also see how important the "7th day" is when we look at the 7th day of Tabernacles, 7th day of Hanukkah, 7th day of Unleavened Bread, and the 7th day of Daniel's 70th week, a.k.a. the "Day of the Lord".

# Puzzle Pieces 3, 4, 5 & 6:

Perhaps the biggest and most important piece of this puzzle is found in Leviticus 25: 1, 8-13 - The Lord said to Moses at Mount Sinai, "Speak to the Israelites and say to them: 'When you enter the land I am going to give you, the land itself must observe a sabbath to the Lord... Count off seven sabbath years—seven times seven years—so that the seven sabbath years amount to a period of forty-nine years. Then have the trumpet sounded everywhere on the tenth day of the seventh month; on the Day of Atonement sound the trumpet throughout your land. Consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you; each of you is to return to your family property and to your own clan. The fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you; do not sow and do not reap what grows of itself or harvest the untended vines. For it is a jubilee and is to be holy for you; eat only what is taken directly from the fields. In this Year of Jubilee everyone is to return to their own property."

What is this "Year of Jubilee" all about? It was and still is about FREEDOM! Perhaps we should call it the, "Year of Freedom"! Slaves were to be set free, property returned to its rightful owner. It was a Sabbath year of rest for God's people and for the land. And when was it to start? Counting 49 years from the day when the Jewish people entered the land that God was going to give to them, the trumpet was to sound on the Day of Atonement (10th day of the Jewish New Year). The Year of Jubilee was to start on the Day of Atonement.

T

here are 3 ways to count years. The most obvious one that we use today is called the "solar year" – approximately 365.25 days. The second way to count years is by using the lunar cycle, which is what the Jewish people use for their calendar – 354.37 days. The third way to count off years according to the Scriptures is what we call a "prophetic year" of 360 days each. We find this numerous times in Scripture, where a "time, times and half a time" is equal to 1260 days. The first 69 weeks of Daniel were fulfilled using prophetic years of 360 days.

In Daniel 9, we see a prophecy given about 70 weeks that are determined to take place. Each of these weeks represents a period of 7 years, so a total of 490 years. The first 69 weeks have already been fulfilled. Daniel was told that from the issuing of the order to rebuild Jerusalem until the Messiah comes, there will be 69 weeks, or 483 years. Most scholars believe these first 69 weeks were 360 day prophetic years, which totaled 476 solar years. The commandment to restore and build Jerusalem was given by Artaxerxes Longimanus on March 14, 445 B.C. **When we examine the period between March 14, 445 B.C. and April 6, 32 A.D., the day Jesus rode into the city of Jerusalem riding on a donkey, we discover that it is 173,880 days exactly** _,_ _to the very day! This was exactly 483 years of 360 days._ Daniel is then told that the Messiah will be cut off. After this, at s ome point in the future, the 70th week of Daniel will begin with the confirming, or strengthening, of a covenant or pledge or promise or agreement with many. This final 7 years will begin a countdown that leads us to the Day of Atonement.

Daniel 9:24 says, "Seventy 'sevens' are decreed for your people and your holy city to finish transgression, to put an end to sin, to atone for wickedness, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy and to anoint the Most Holy Place." The end of this 70 weeks leads us to the **Day of Atonement**. We know that right in the middle of this final 7-year countdown, that this person who strengthens his covenant with many will stand in the holy place where he does not belong. We also know that this holy place will be a fortress-like structure that has been desecrated by armed forces, according to Daniel 11:31.

Before we go further into this, let's go back to the Year of Jubilee and one more important clue about the 70 weeks in Daniel. The first 69 weeks are actually divided into two numbers for us. 7 weeks and 62 weeks. I believe the Lord intentionally did this so that it would read like this: "So you are to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah, the Prince, there will be seven weeks..." It then goes onto mention the 62 weeks. But if we just stop reading right there, we have this 7 weeks, or 49-year period, from when Jerusalem starts to be rebuilt. Jerusalem was recaptured on June 7, 1967. This was the last time the land that rightfully belonged to Israel was given back to her. If we count off 49 prophetic years of 360 days from this time, we come to September 23, 2015, the Day of Atonement.

I believe the Lord is telling us that from the day when God gives Israel back the land that rightfully belonged to her (see Leviticus 25:1) and when the decree goes out to rebuild and restore Jerusalem (see Daniel 9:25a), from that day we are to count off 49 prophetic years, which end right on the Day of Atonement in 2015 (September 23, 2015). This will begin the "Year of Jubilee" for the raptured saints, and will also start the "great and dreadful Day of the Lord" for those who are left behind.

The Year of Jubilee was to last for ONE YEAR – not 7 or 3 ½ years as most Christians believe because of not putting ALL of the pieces together to see the whole picture of how God will fulfill His prophecies. There was another event that was to last for ONE YEAR as well. For the first year of a Jewish marriage, the Bridegroom was not to fight in any war or engage in business, but only to stay with His new Bride to bring her happiness. Deuteronomy 24:5 – "When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war, neither shall he be charged with any business; but he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer up his wife whom he hath taken."

The Bible refers to God's people as the "Bride of Christ" (see Revelation 19:7-9, Revelation 21:2,9, Ephesians 5:25-27, John 3:29, 2 Corinthians 11:2). When a man marries a woman, everything that belongs to him is now hers as well; they are co-heirs together. We will rule and reign with Christ; we, as His people, are like the "Queen" and He is our "King". For one year, we will be together with Christ in the heavenlies, and Jesus, the restrainer (see 2 Thessalonians 2), will be with His Bride, no longer fighting Satan or restraining him. Satan will have one final year to do as he pleases. This is why Jesus said, "About that DAY or HOUR, no man knows – NOT EVEN THE SON, but ONLY THE FATHER." Jesus does not know what will happen on that "DAY", the final day of Daniel's 70th week, because Jesus will not be here. He will be with His Bride, cheering her up, resting together during the "Year of Jubilee". The Year of Jubilee starts on the Day of Atonement, 49 prophetic years after the Jewish people were given back the land that rightfully belonged to her and from the day when the decree went out to rebuild and restore Jerusalem. If we count off 17,640 days from June 7, 1967, we end right on September 23, 2015, the Day of Atonement.

360 X 49 = 17,640

From and including: **Wednesday, 7 June 1967**  
To, but **not** including **Wednesday, 23 September 2015**

## Result: 17,640 days

## 2520 weeks

It's as if the Lord is telling us in Leviticus 25 that from the day when you see Israel given back the land that rightfully belongs to her (June 7, 1967), from that day, count off 49 prophetic years and you will end up on the Day of Atonement. This is the day that the trumpet is to sound and the slaves are set free, all debts are cancelled and liberty is proclaimed to those who are taken in the Rapture. "The Lord said to Moses at Mount Sinai, "Speak to the Israelites and say to them: 'When you enter the land I am going to give you,...count off seven sabbath years—seven times seven years—so that the seven sabbath years amount to a period of forty-nine years. Then have the trumpet sounded everywhere on the tenth day of the seventh month; on the Day of Atonement sound the trumpet throughout your land. Consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you; each of you is to return to your family property and to your own clan. (Leviticus 25:1, 2a, 8-10). Or likewise, in Daniel 9, the Lord is telling us that from the day when the decree goes out to rebuild Jerusalem, we are to count off seven seven's (49 prophetic years). "Know and understand this: From the time the word goes out to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the Anointed One, the ruler, comes, there will be seven 'sevens'... (Daniel 9:25a).

There are many who make up the Bride of Christ whose robes are not clean, or white. In Revelation, they are referred to as being "lukewarm" Christians (see Revelation 3:15-17). They are not totally sold out to Christ and are worldly (see 1 John 2:15). These believers in Christ will be left behind to endure the "Day of the Lord". The Lord does not want His Bride to be ashamed before Him on the wedding day. It is His grace that is allowing them to be left behind so that they can repent of their sin and perhaps even be given the honor of martyrdom for Christ. You may be one of those people reading this book right now. Please know that it was not because God is angry with you that you were left behind. Jesus wants His Bride to be pure and triumphant, unashamed before Him, on the wedding day. What bridegroom wants his bride to walk down the wedding aisle naked, wretched and pitiful (see Revelation 3:17 and Revelation 16:15), bringing shame to herself and to the bridegroom? No, the wedding day is to showcase the beauty and honor of the bride; it is to be a day of victory and celebration. Those who have overcome and brought glory to God through their lives will be chosen to participate in the wedding day after the Rapture takes place. For those left behind, there will be a second chance – a second rapture event after the year of judgment during the "Day of the Lord", the 7th day of Daniel's 70th week. I personally believe this event will take place once again on the Day of Atonement in 2016, and the "Year of Jubilee" will be extended for 1000 years for those saints who were left behind or came to faith in Christ during the "Day of the Lord".

It is also my belief that the wedding event in heaven will take place during the Feast of Tabernacles, which starts 5 days after the Day of Atonement. The Feast of Tabernacles is a 7-day Feast. A traditional Jewish wedding would last for 7 days. The most important day of the Jewish wedding was the 7th day of the Feast. Likewise, the most important day of the Feast of Tabernacles is the 7th day. This will be explained more in the next chapter.

Before going on to chapter 3, I would like to look quickly at the Day of Atonement and compare how the Jewish celebration and beliefs about this day also compare to the Jewish wedding and symbolize the Rapture event taking place on this day. The Day of Atonement is considered the most holy day of the year to the Jewish people. It was on this day that the high priest would go into the holy of holies to make atonement for the whole year of sins for the entire Jewish nation. It was called the "face-to-face" day, because the high priest would be consumed by God's presence and face-to-face with God. This was a most solemn moment, and the people were gripped with anxiety as the high priest was in there, waiting to see if God would accept the sacrifice. A bright cloud was over the mercy seat, at God's presence in there. When the high priest emerged from the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement, they knew that they were absolutely sinless and blameless before the Lord, and could set out upon yet another year of sin, until the next year.

There are numerous similarities between a Jewish wedding and the Day of Atonement. One is that the Bride and Bridegroom fast on the day of their wedding, until the wedding feast at the end of the day. The Jewish people also fast on the Day of Atonement. The same white garments are worn by the men on the Day of Atonement as the day of their wedding. The same prayers are recited on the Day of Atonement as in a Jewish wedding. On the Day of Atonement, the Jewish people consider that their sins have been forgiven and on the day of a Jewish wedding, it is believed also that the sins of the Bride and Bridegroom have been f orgiven. At a Jewish wedding, this is recited, "Open a new gate for us as the old gate is closed." It was believed that the gates of heaven were opened until the end of the Day of Atonement and then the gates of Heaven would close at the end of the day.

J

oel 2 is all about the " **Day of the Lord"**. It says, "Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly: Gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts: let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her closet." It was on the Day of Atonement that the Jewish people would blow a trumpet, sanctify a fast and call a solemn assembly. There is little question that this verse is pointing us to the Day of Atonement as the beginning of the " **Day of the Lord"** and start of His wrath. All other Jewish festivals include feasting and joy, while this day is one to fast, blow a trumpet and call a solemn assembly. It is considered the holiest day of the year by the Jewish people and even most non-religious Jews observe this day. It was considered to be a Sabbath.

Jesus said in Mark 2:20, "But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast." Could Jesus have been giving us yet another clue about when the bridegroom was coming and when He would be taken away from those left behind? Could He be telling us that on that DAY, there will be fasting, when the Bridegroom is taken away with the Bride and the " **DAY OF THE LORD"** begins. This is when the "restrainer" is removed. 2 Thessalonians 2:7 says, "For the secret power of lawlessness is already at work; but the one who now holds it back will continue to do so till he is taken out of the way."

When Jesus leaves with His Bride to start the Year of Jubilee with the Raptured Saints in Heaven, this is when all hell breaks l

oose on planet earth as the One who has been restraining the power of lawlessness is taken out of the way. Jesus said that only the Father knows ABOUT this day and hour - the Day of the Lord. Zechariah 14 calls it "a day known only to the Lord". Even Jesus told us that He was unaware of what exactly will happen during this year of total darkness, when Satan is allowed to have his way on earth without restraint. Zechariah 14 also tells us that on that "day" there will be no light. T

his is because Jesus, the light of the world, will no longer be there. He is with us until the end of the age and the age of grace will be finished and the day of wrath will have begun. Could it be that it is so dreadful and terrible, that the Father has hidden this from the Son in order to spare Him the pain of knowing what will take place? "But about that day or hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father." (Matthew 24:36) Might it also be that the darkness will not only be spiritual darkness, but literal, such as if a solar flare hit the US power grid and knocked out all electrical power in the US? "The fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness." (Revelation 16:10)

# Puzzle Pieces 7, 8 & 9:

L

et's take a quick look at the 7th day of the Feast of Tabernacles. This was perhaps the most festive day of the year in Israel. It was on this day that the Jewish people would walk around the altar 7 times in remembrance of the walls of Jericho falling. On the 7th time around, the people would throw the palm branches they were carrying into the fire of the altar and cry out, "Hosanna, save us now! Blessed is He who comes in the Name of the Lord!" There was a great deal of dancing and rejoicing that took place on this day. It was the one day of the year when the Jewish people looked for and anticipated their Messiah showing up. While I am not completely certain, it seems to me that our wedding celebration in heaven will most likely last for 7 days during the Feast of Tabernacles, and the most festive day of the wedding will be on the 7th day, just as it was with the traditional Jewish wedding.

Daniel 9:27 teaches us that the final 7 years before Jesus returns to earth will begin with the strengthening of a covenant or agreement with many. October 9, 2009, was the day when the final 7 years (or Daniel's 70th week) began. This was the 7th day of the Feast of Tabernacles. It was on this day that Mr. Obama was chosen as the Nobel Peace Prize winner. Mr. Obama was chosen as the world's peacemaker on the 7th day of the Feast of Tabernacles, the one day of the year when the Jewish people looked for and anticipated their Messiah to come. This event was the strengthening of the covenant or agreement with many that Daniel mentioned. Mr. Obama would then go on to receive the award just a few hours before the start of Kislev 24 on the Jewish calendar (Hanukkah Eve). There are 2 dates mentioned in Haggai 2 regarding the Lord shaking the heavens and the earth and bringing the desired of all nations to Himself at the time of the Rapture. These 2 dates are the 21st day of the 7th month (7th day of Tabernacles) and the 24th day of the 9th month (Kislev 24). These 2 days started a final 7-year countdown leading to the fall of 2016 as the time for the final wedding day of the saints on the 7th day of Tabernacles in 2016 and then to Hanukkah 2016 as the Second Coming of Christ to earth to rule and reign for 1000 years.

"That leader will make firm an agreement with many people for seven years. He will stop the offerings and sacrifices after three and one-half years. A destroyer will do blasphemous things until the ordered end comes to the destroyed city." (Daniel 9:27)

To be certain that this was in fact the strengthening of the agreement with many that Daniel is referring to, we needed to see something take place in the middle of this 7-year period that would fulfill the prophecies concerning the daily sacrifice and offering being stopped. This event is referred to in the Bible as the "Abomination of Desolation" or the "Abomination that causes Desolation". In the next chapter, we will look at the prophecies concerning this event and see how Mr. Obama fulfilled them exactly 1260 days after he was chosen as the Nobel Peace Prize winner on October 9, 2009.

I know that many of you have been told that the final 7 years will begin with the signing of a peace treaty and that the temple in Israel will be rebuilt and in the middle of this 7-year period, the antichrist will stop the animal sacrifices taking place in this temple and declare that he is god. And this could be one possible interpretation of how the Scriptures could be fulfilled.

The problem is that the Lord never seems to fulfill His prophecies in a way that everyone is expecting. When Christ first came to earth, all of the Jewish people were expecting their Messiah at that time. They were looking for Him. They knew the 69 weeks of Daniel were about to end and they were anticipating their Messiah to show up any day. Yet, almost all of them missed Him when He came – especially the religious leaders. They had too many preconceived ideas of what the Messiah was supposed to be that they missed Him. And today also, most Christians are unaware of the times in which we live because they are so certain that a temple must first be built in Israel and a 7-year peace treaty signed. Most believers also think the rapture takes place before all of these events, so there is little need to watch for the prophecies to be fulfilled before the Rapture occurs.

# Puzzle Pieces 10 & 11:

L

et's take a look now at the Abomination that causes Desolation and see how the prophecies about this event were fulfilled on March 22, 2013.

"That leader will make firm an agreement with many people for seven years. He will stop the offerings and sacrifices after three and one-half years. A destroyer will do blasphemous things until the ordered end comes to the destroyed city." Daniel 9:27

"His armed forces will rise up to desecrate the temple fortress and will abolish the daily sacrifice. Then they will set up the abomination that causes desolation." Daniel 11:31

"From the time that the daily sacrifice is abolished and the abomination that causes desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days." Daniel 12:11

"So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel--let the reader understand..." Matthew 25:15

"When you see 'the abomination that causes desolation' standing where it does not belong—let the reader understand—then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains." Mark 13:14

OK, so let's put all of these verses together to get a picture of what this "abomination" will actually be. It will take place at 3 ½ years into the final 7 years. It will involve daily sacrifice and offering being stopped. It will happen in a temple fortress that was desecrated by armed forces. It will involve this person who strengthened his promise or covenant standing in the holy place where he does not belong. And it will be 1290 days before a significant date.

I believe this prophecy has been fulfilled in TWO stages. The first part was fulfilled in April/May 2002, when Palestinian armed forces rose up and **desecrated** the temple " **fortress** " and abolished the daily sacrifice (daily communion took place in the Church of the Nativity until the Palestinians took over the building - so what was taking place "daily" was stopped on that day). Now, 11 years later, the abomination that causes desolation has taken place. We know that this is the **HOLY PLACE** that Jesus was talking about, because it is a temple **fortress** that was **desecrated** and is referred to as the **HOLY PLACE.**

Here are some quotes from different articles on the internet from 2 002:  
In Christian tradition, the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem marks the place where Mary gave birth to Jesus. It is one of the oldest continuously operating churches in the world. First-time visitors are sometimes startled, even disappointed, by its fortress-like appearance which results from a 12th century AD Crusader reconstruction to make it more defensible. Defying its status as one of Christendom's holiest shrines, it seems dilapidated and battered, not at all beautiful. Still, for a building that has survived destruction by the Persians (614), a mad caliph (1009), earthquake (1834) fire (1869) and a Israeli army siege (2002) against suspected Palestinian militants who had taken refuge there, its dignity remains intact.

 The forbidding, fortress-like church in the center of the modern city of Bethlehem, facing Manger Square, is one of the oldest churches in the world.

Entering the church that marks the site of Christ's birthplace means having to stoop low. The only doorway in the fortress-like front wall is just 1.2 metres high.

N eedless to say, the seizure of the 1,677-year-old church by 250 guerrillas affiliated with Islamist terror factions has hardly roused the armies of Christendom. Crusades, Christian-soldiering and all that went out in the last millennium.

Still, it's a shock to realize that this desecration of the ancient church built over what's believed to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ has brought down neither Christian wrath nor international pressure on the desecrators to lay down their arms and leave.

Palestinians celebrate Church of Nativity win, Israel notes they desecrated the site.

###  UNESCO Turns The Same Church Over To Palestinians That PLO Desecrated During Intifada

While Muslims have responded with deadly outrage to the now-retracted report by Newsweek of alleged Quran desecration by U.S. interrogators, there was little outcry three years ago when Islamic terrorists holed up in Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity reportedly used the Bible as toilet paper.

The Israeli Prime Minister's Office said at the time, "The world needs to remember that the Church of the Nativity, which is sacred to Christianity, has been desecrated in the past by Palestinian terrorists."

The Church of the Nativity in the heart of Bethlehem marks one of Christianity's most sacred sites \- the birthplace of Christ.

Situated on Manger Square 8 kilometres (5 miles) from Jerusalem, the church is built over a grotto where the Virgin Mary is said to have given birth to Jesus. The church's large fortress-like exterior stands as a testament to its turbulent history. For centuries, it was one of the most fought over holy places. It was seized and defended by a succession of armies - including Muslim and Crusader forces.

T he Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem is a major Christian holy site, as it marks the traditional place of Christ's birth. It is also one of the oldest surviving Christian churches.

The holy site, known as the Grotto, that the Church of the Nativity sits atop, is today associated with the cave in which the birthplace of Jesus of Nazareth occurred.

No wonder Mr. Sharon told the Israeli Parliament he would "expect the international community to demand that they the terrorists lay down their arms and leave the holy place."

One of Christianity's most holy places, the site's focal point is the Grotto of the Nativity, a rectangular cavern beneath the church that has been considered the site of Christ's birth since at least the 2nd century. A 14-pointed silver star set into the marble floor marks the precise spot where Jesus is said to have been born.

"So when you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel--let the reader understand"-- Matthew 24:15

"When you see 'the abomination that causes desolation' standing where it does not belong\--let the reader understand--then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains." Mark 13:14

Definition of THEN:  
_a_ **:** soon after that **:** next in order of time

_b_ **:** following next after in order of position, narration, or enumeration

## We have just witnessed a prophecy from 2500 years ago fulfilled: Daniel 11:31 - "His armed forces will rise up to desecrate the temple fortress and will abolish the daily sacrifice. THEN they will set up the abomination that causes desolation."

## Amid high security, Obama toured the church with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. They stopped at the Grotto of the Nativity, which is said to stand where Jesus Christ was born. About 20 children waving U.S. and Palestinian flags greeted Obama in a courtyard outside the sanctuary.

##

Notice that Jesus says, "When you see STANDING in the holy place..." Obama did not kneel down at the grotto. Matthew 2:11 - "On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they BOWED DOWN AND WORSHIPED HIM. Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh." This is the appropriate response - kneeling before the King. Obama did not kneel, he just stood there, as Jesus prophesied that he would. One day, he will bow his knee. This **ABOMINATION** that we have all just witnessed will cause the desolation to take place. The abomination causes the desolation. **Obama is an abomination to the Lord. DESOLATION = A STATE OF COMPLETE DESTRUCTION, DEVASTATION, AND RUIN**.

While he was in Israel, the President said in Hebrew, "So long as there is a United States, you are not alone." So, if there is no United States, Israel stands alone. In chess, you need to knock out the Queen to get to the King. Revelation 18:7-8: "In her heart she boasts, 'I sit enthroned as queen. I am not a widow; I will never mourn.' Therefore in one day her plagues will overtake her: death, mourning and famine. She will be consumed by fire, for mighty is the Lord God who judges her." During his speech, US President Barack Obama said "Israel is the most powerful country in the region, and has the unshakable support of the strongest nation in the world."

After studying each word in the original language, this is a possible interpretation for this verse:

"And he shall strengthen the covenant/pledge/ agreement with many for one week: and in the middle of the week he shall cause the thank offering and the tribute to stop or be held back from, and at the wing of the detestable abomination he shall cause horror and desolation, even until the end or completion, and that determined shall be poured or melted upon the desolated."

Obama made a covenant on January 20/21, 2009, with the American people, on the 7th day of the "Gentile Feast of Tabernacles" (21st day of the Gentile New Year), as well as with the world - to be the leader of the greatest and most powerful nation on earth. On October 9, 2009, that covenant was strengthened, when Obama was chosen to be the Nobel Peace Prize winner on the 7th day of the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles. This is the ONLY day of the year when the Israelites would cry out "Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!" and look for their Messiah and wave palm branches. On this day, Obama was chosen as the **PEACEMAKER** of the world. 1260 days later, Obama **STOOD** in the **HOLY PLACE** , the same place that armed forces had **DESECRATED** on April 2, 2002, the temple **FORTRESS**.

We are the temple of the Holy Spirit. We are part of the third temple, His body. He no longer dwells in a tabernacle built by human hands. This is why the Church of the Nativity is the holy place and not the temple mount. The third temple made His first appearance on earth in Bethlehem where the Church was built. Obama went there to make a statement - that he was declaring himself to be "god". This is why 322 is such an important number to the illuminati. They knew that on March 22, the Antichrist would go to the "holy place" to declare himself as god before the Most High. He was making a statement to G

od and to the world, but the world did not notice. The Satanic illuminati and elite did though. March 22, 2012, was also supposed to be the date when Obamacare went into effect, which has provisions within it for the "mark of the beast" chip to be inserted into Americans. It was delayed in fulfillment of the prophecies, which we will discuss in the next few chapters of this book.

Daniel 12:11 says that from the time the daily is stopped or put aside, there will be 1290 days. This word "daily" is _"tamiyd"_ and it simply means "daily" or "continual" - something that happens everyday (daily). Daniel 9:27 tells us that the sacrifice and offering will be stopped. Everyday, people line up at the Church of the Nativity to bow down at the grotto and offer thanks to the Lord Jesus Christ for coming to the earth to be a sacrifice for their sins and to give them eternal life. This is a sacrifice of praise and offering of thanksgiving being offered to the Lord. On March 22, 2012, this daily sacrifice of praise and offering of thanksgiving was stopped when Mr. Obama came to the grotto and did not offer thanks to Jesus for what he has done. Rather, Mr. Obama went there to proclaim to God that the world is now looking to him as the peacemaker and to defy the Lord Jesus Christ. On March 22, 2012, no offering of thanksgiving or sacrifice of praise was made to the Lord from this spot. This happened exactly 1260 days after Mr. Obama was chosen as the Nobel Peace Prize winner on the 7th day of Tabernacles. Since Mr. Obama had not done anything up to that point to usher in peace, it must be assumed that the award was being given in the hope that he would become the peacemaker for the world.

I am fully aware of the traditional teaching of how the end-times will play out, and also aware that probably over 90% of Christians believe a scenario that goes something like this: The Rapture will happen. Christians will be taken from the earth. Right after the Rapture, a 7-year peace treaty will be signed by the Antichrist and Israel, allowing Israel to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem. Animal sacrifices will start daily when this temple is built. In the middle of the 7 years of Tribulation, the Antichrist will ride into Jerusalem (probably on a white horse) and sit in this Temple and tell the world that he is God and stop these animal sacrifices. When this happens, the Jewish people need to flee to the mountains because this is the abomination and desolation will take place. Three and a half years later, Jesus will return to earth on a white horse with all the Raptured saints who have been partying in heaven for 7 years. We will then rule and reign with Christ for 1000 years.

You know, when Jesus came the first time, people also had pre-conceived ideas of how everything would play out. John 7: Among the crowds there was widespread whispering about him. Some said, "He is a good man." Others replied, "No, he deceives the people." But no one would say anything publicly about him for fear of the leaders...At that point some of the people of Jerusalem began to ask, "Isn't this the man they are trying to kill? Here he is, speaking publicly, and they are not saying a word to him. Have the authorities really concluded that he is the Messiah? But we know where this man is from; when the Messiah comes, no one will know where he is from."

You see, the Jewish people were expecting a King, like David, who would save them from the Romans and establish Israel as the most powerful nation in the world. After all, their God was the One and Only true God, and He had chosen Israel to represent Himself to the nations. This Jesus, He wasn't doing anything the way they had expected, so they were so confused. And very few believed.

**Prophecies are rarely, if ever, fulfilled in the way we expect them to be.** The Lord gets all the glory when He fulfills prophecies in a way that no one is expecting. The disciples' eyes were only opened AFTER Jesus had risen from the dead, even though Jesus had told them many times that he would be killed in Jerusalem and raise from the dead on the third day. Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Do we really expect that He will do it differently this time? Do we think it will be so obvious that everyone can see it? No, He will choose to open the eyes of those whom He chooses, those who are not so set in their preconceived interpretations of the prophecies that they are willing to listen and hear what the Spirit is saying.

2 Thessalonians 2:3-4 – "Don't let anyone deceive you in any way, for that DAY will not come until the rebellion occurs and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the man doomed to destruction. He will oppose and will exalt himself over everything that is called God or is worshiped, so that he sets himself up in God's temple, proclaiming himself to be God."

I think we can all agree that there has been a "falling away" in America and that Mr. Obama is a man of lawlessness, who thinks he is above the law. He opposes God and what God stands for. **What about this part of the verse: HE SETS HIMSELF UP IN GOD'S TEMPLE, PROCLAIMING HIMSELF TO BE GOD?**

So, that means that he will ride into Jerusalem and stand in a newly built 3rd temple and tell the world that he is "god". Right? Well, that would be one possibility, but seems a little too obvious to me. Jesus didn't ride into Jerusalem and go to the Temple and start screaming out, "I am the Messiah, worship Me! I'm the One who was to come! Here I am!" No, He came in on a donkey, humbly, as the Prince of Peace to the world. The world rejected Him. Israel rejected Him. He was not the great Messiah they wanted. Jesus stood up and cried out in a loud voice on the 7th day of Tabernacles, "Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow from within them." He was telling them right on the 7th day of Tabernacles that He was their Messiah. But they rejected Him. The world has rejected Him. Instead, they have chosen a mere man, one of lawlessness, to be their peacemaker.

I would like to suggest to you that Mr. Obama is trying to imitate Jesus. He was chosen as the **PEACEMAKER** of the world on the 7th day of Tabernacles in 2009. This was the only day of the year when the Jewish people would cry out, "Blessed is He who c omes in the Name of the Lord!" This was the day that they looked for their Messiah, the "Prince of Peace". Then they cried out to Jesus on the 10th of Nisan these same words, when He rode into Jerusalem. Those that did this recognized that Jesus was their Messiah.

Now, we have a man named Barak, whose name means "blessed", who rode into Jerusalem on a "borrowed beast" on the 10th of Nisan (on the Jewish calendar), exactly 1260 days after he was chosen as the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize on the 7th day of Tabernacles. The two dates that are associated with Psalm 118:6 (Blessed is He who comes in the Name of the Lord) are the 7th day of Tabernacles and the 10th of Nisan. Barak means blessed. He is trying to imitate Christ, the Prince of Peace. He won the Peace Prize on the 7th day of Tabernacles and then he came into Jerusalem as a "peacemaker" on the 10th of Nisan. Who is he that comes in the "name of the Lord"? Blessed. Barak. He comes in the Lord's name, a false Christ, trying to be Christ. Children greeted him, waving flags, singing and dancing. This was exactly what happened when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on the 10th of Nisan.

M atthew 21: But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, "Hosanna to the Son of David!" they were indignant, and they said to him, "Do you hear what these are saying?" And Jesus said to them, "Yes; have you never read, "'Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise'?"

Just as Jesus had young children waving palm branches to Him and worshiping Him, so Obama has children waving flags. Obama "wept" on the 7th day of Hanukkah on December 14, 2012. The main headline on CNN that day read, "Obama weeps". This was very likely the same day that Jesus "wept" when Lazarus was dead (see John 11). The 7th day of Hanukkah is another important piece of this puzzle that we will look at later on in chapter 11.

Jesus spoke to His disciples about the abomination that causes desolation on the 11th day of Nisan, the day after He rode into Jerusalem. The abomination actually took place on the 11th of Nisan on the Jewish calendar.

S

o, what does all of this have to do with: **HE SETS HIMSELF UP IN GOD'S TEMPLE, PROCLAIMING HIMSELF TO BE GOD?** First of all, what I'm trying to show is that he is trying to imitate Christ and **BE THE MESSIAH**. He doesn't have to come right out and scream to the world, "Here I am! I'm the one! I'm the long awaited Messiah! I am GOD!" No, just by imitating Jesus, he is declaring that **HE IS THE CHRIST**. We know that he is not the Christ, but the Anti-Christ. He is not the **PEACEMAKER**. He is the **DESTROYER** , the one who causes the **DESOLATION**.

John 1:14 - The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. (NIV)

John 1:14 - And the Word became flesh, and did tabernacle among us, and we beheld his glory, glory as of an only begotten of a father, full of grace and truth. (Young's Literal Translation)

Jesus was the Tabernacle, or the Temple. He was God in the flesh. He is now building us, His body, to be the Temple, or Tabernacle, in which His Spirit lives. Where was the first place that God chose to have His Son, His Tabernacle, born? In Bethlehem. The Lord was building a new Tabernacle, starting a New Covenant, with the people of the world. The place where Jesus was born is a Holy Place. It's the very first place where **HIS TABERNACLE** , Jesus, started on earth.

M r. Obama visited this Temple, this Holy Place. He did not bow his knee to the King. He did not go there to worship the Lord. Do you really think Mr. Obama was praying to Jesus while he was there, worshiping the true God and thanking Him for sending His Son to be a ransom and pay the penalty for his sin so that he might have eternal life? Does anyone here think that's what he did when he went to the Church of the Nativity?

No, he went there as a statement to God and to the world – I am your new Messiah. I am your Prince of Peace. He went there to defy God and proclaim to God that HE WOULD NOT BOW HIS KNEE. He went there to challenge God – to tell God that the world is now worshiping him and that he is the Messiah of the world.

But just as when Jesus rode into Jerusalem, only those with eyes to see and ears to hear really understand what is happening. Most do not have the spiritual discernment to understand how the Scriptures are being fulfilled because of too many preconceived ideas that have become set doctrines in their minds. Obama knows exactly what he is doing and who he is trying to imitate. It's unfortunate that Christians cannot see this.

"From the time that the daily sacrifice is abolished and the abomination that causes desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days." Daniel 12:11

If we count 1290 days from March 22/23, 2013, we end up on October 3, 2016. This is the start of the Feast of Trumpets in 2016. Daniel tells us that there will be 1290 days from the day the daily is stopped and the abomination is set up (when Obama stood in the holy place, and the daily offering of thanksgiving and sacrifice of praise at the Church of the Nativity was put aside). So, this 1290-day count ends on the Feast of Trumpets in 2016. This day starts the Jewish New Year and will be the beginning of the year when Jesus returns to earth to set up His Kingdom for 1000 years.

You may be wondering why I am spending so much time on this puzzle piece... the abomination that causes desolation. The reason is because it is such a crucial piece of the puzzle. If the abomination took place on March 22, 2013, then we are about to being the final year of Daniel's 70th week, a.k.a the "Day of the Lord". If what took place on March 22, 2013, was in fact the abomination spoken of in Daniel and by Jesus in Matthew 24, then it should be able to answer yes to the following questions in fulfillment of the prophecies:

**Question** : Did what took place happen in the middle of a possible final 7-year period, wherein an agreement was strengthened at the beginning of this 7-year period and was it also 1290 days before a significant date? (That leader will make firm an agreement with many people for seven years. He will stop the offerings and sacrifices after three and one-half years...Daniel 9:27...From the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be 1290 days...Daniel 12:11.)

Answer: Yes, it was exactly 1260 days after Mr. Obama was chosen as the Nobel Peace Prize winner on the 7th day of Tabernacles, representing the strengthening of his agreement with many to be the peacemaker for the world. It also took place 1290 days before the Feast of Trumpets in 2016, which starts the Jewish New Year, the year in which Christ will return to earth to rule and reign for 1000 years.

Question: Did what took place involve this one who strengthened his covenant with many going to a holy place and standing where he did not belong? (When you see standing in the holy place 'the abomination that causes desolation,' spoken of through the prophet Daniel... Matthew 24:15.)

Answer: Yes, Mr. Obama stood at the grotto, the place where Christ was born. Here are some quotes from various news articles about the Church of the Nativity:

a. For centuries, it was one of the most fought over holy places.

b. The Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem is a major Christian holy site, as it marks the traditional place of Christ's birth

c. The holy site, known as the Grotto, that the Church of the Nativity sits atop, is today associated with the cave in which the birthplace of Jesus of Nazareth occurred.

d. No wonder Mr. Sharon told the Israeli Parliament he would "expect the international community to demand that they the terrorists lay down their arms and leave the holy place."  
e. One of Christianity's most holy places, the site's focal point is the Grotto of the Nativity, a rectangular cavern beneath the church that has been considered the site of Christ's birth since at least the 2nd century.

Question: Was this holy place ever desecrated by armed forces? (His armed forces will rise up to desecrate the temple fortress and will abolish the daily sacrifice. Then they will set up the abomination that causes desolation...Daniel 11:31.)

Answer: Yes, the Church of the Nativity was taken over by armed forces on April 2, 2002, and they desecrated the place. Here are some quotes from news agencies about this event:

a. Still, it's a shock to realize that this desecration of the ancient church built over what's believed to be the birthplace of Jesus Christ has brought down neither Christian wrath nor international pressure on the desecrators to lay down their arms and leave.

b. Palestinians celebrate Church of Nativity win, Israel notes they desecrated the site.

c.  UNESCO Turns The Same Church Over To Palestinians That PLO Desecrated During Intifada

d. While Muslims have responded with deadly outrage to the now-retracted report by Newsweek of alleged Quran desecration by U.S. interrogators, there was little outcry three years ago when Islamic terrorists holed up in Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity reportedly used the Bible as toilet paper.

e. The Israeli Prime Minister's Office said at the time, "The world needs to remember that the Church of the Nativity, which is sacred to Christianity, has been desecrated in the past by Palestinian terrorists."

Question: Was there a daily sacrifice of some sort that was stopped on the day when this abomination took place? (That leader will make firm an agreement with many people for seven years. He will stop the offerings and sacrifices after three and one-half years...Daniel 9:27...From the time the daily sacrifices are stopped, that is, from the time of The Awful Horror, 1,290 days will pass....Daniel 12:11.)

Answer: Yes, everyday there are visitors who come to the Church of the Nativity from around the world to visit the grotto and bow down to worship Jesus, thanking Him for coming to the earth to pay the sacrifice for their sins. This worship is a sacrifice of praise and offering of thanksgiving. This could not take place on the day when Mr. Obama visited because all daily activities at the church were rearranged in order to accommodate his visit. Mr. Obama and his entourage did not go there to worship Jesus or bow their hearts or their knees before the Lord. Mr. Obama stood in the holy place where he did not belong and did not worship Jesus. He stopped the daily sacrifice and offering.

# Puzzle Pieces 12 and 13:

OK, so I can already hear the wheels turning in your heads. If the abomination that causes desolation occurred on March 22, 2012, then why did the desolation event not occur immediately or shortly after March 22, 2012? Jesus very clearly warned those living in Judea to flee to the mountains when they saw this event, indicating that the desolation would take place very shortly after this happened. And here we are, several years later, and no desolation has taken place.

This is where we have to start putting pieces of the puzzle together to see the whole picture. Right after Jesus spoke about the abomination event and fleeing to the mountains, he said this in Matthew 24:22: "And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." He then goes on to say in Matthew 25:5, "When the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and fell asleep." Then we also read in Revelation 10:5-7 - "Then the angel I had seen standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven. And he swore by him who lives for ever and ever, who created the heavens and all that is in them, the earth and all that is in it, and the sea and all that is in it, and said, "There will be no more delay! But in the days when the seventh angel is about to sound his trumpet, the mystery of God will be accomplished, just as he announced to his servants the prophets."

These 3 verses tell us that there will be a delay in the coming of the Bridegroom for His Bride and that the days of Tribulation will be shortened in order that some flesh might be saved. So, how do we know how long the delay will last for? The Bible tells us! There are actually TWO delays given to us in the Scripture. Let's look at the first delay in chapter 6.

# Puzzle Pieces 14 and 15:

"The fourth angel sounded his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them turned dark. A third of the day was without light, and also a third of the night." (Revelation 8:12)

I would like to suggest that this may be referring to only 1/3 of the days being darkened, or only 1/3 of the Tribulation time being the Great Tribulation, at the Day of the Lord. We are all going through tribulation on this earth, as Jesus warned us that we would. But the time of Great Tribulation is what the believers can be spared from. Jesus told us to pray that we would be found worthy to escape all of these things that will come upon the earth and to stand before the Son of Man. I believe this is the Rapture event and that it takes place immediately before the Great Tribulation starts, which I believe has been shortened to only 1/3 of the days, in fulfillment of the 4th trumpet judgment.

Jesus seems to imply in Matthew 24 that the desolation occurs right after the abomination is set up. He warns those living in Judea to flee to the mountains immediately, and not even go b ack in their house to get their coats or belongings. Right after He warns those living in Judea to flee to the mountains, He then goes on to tell us that unless these days of Great Tribulation are shortened, no flesh would survive. The Lord also told us in Matthew 25 and Revelation 10 that the Bridegroom would be delayed. If we count right from the abomination being set up on March 22, 2013, until the first day of Hanukkah in 2016, which I believe will be the Second Coming of Christ to earth right on Christmas Day, we have a total of 1374 days. If we divide that number by 3, or multiply by 1/3, we have 458 days of darkness. Now, counting from September 24, 2015, the day after the Day of Atonement in 2015, until Hanukkah 2016, we have 458 days. This is exactly 1/3 of the days counting from the Abomination being set up on March 22, 2013, which Jesus alluded to as the start of the desolation, until Hanukkah 2016, the very end of the Great Tribulation. Could the Scriptures be saying that only 1/3 of the days appointed for tribulation will be darkened? In other words, is the Scripture pointing us to the Great Tribulation only being 1/3 of the appointed time?

March 22, 2013, to December 25, 2016 = 1374 days

1374 X 1/3 = 458 days

September 24, 2015, to December 25, 2016 = 458 days

Has the Great Tribulation been shortened to 1/3 of the days in fulfillment of Revelation 8? Have the days of darkness that will come upon the earth been shortened to 1/3 in fulfillment of the 4th trumpet judgment?

In 2 Samuel 8, Ezekiel 5, and Zechariah 13, we are given 3 illustrations of how 2/3 are cut off and 1/3 remain. The number 1/3 is mentioned at least 14 times in the book of Revelation. The Lord has hidden these gems throughout the Old and New Testaments pointing us to the 1/3 judgment that He will bring on the earth and how 2/3 of what could have been the Great Tribulation period was cut off and only 1/3 remain.

The fourth trumpet judgment in Revelation 8 tells us that 1/3 of the day and night (or time) is without light. Jesus is the light of the world. I believe that this prophecy is telling us that Jesus, the light of the world, will be gone with His Bride for 1/3 of the time that the Great Tribulation could have lasted for. These "days of darkness" will begin on September 24, 2015. The restrainer (Jesus) will no longer restrain Satan. A Jewish Bridegroom was not to go to war or do any business for the first year of his marriage – he was only to stay with his wife to bring her pleasure. This is exactly the reason why Jesus told us that He did not know about that day or hour. He was referring to the "Day of the Lord", the final day of Daniel's 70th week, when He would take His Bride and He would no longer be fighting Satan or the forces of evil and they would be allowed to have their way on the earth without any restraint. Only the Father Himself knows about what will take place on that day (year). Jesus also told us in John 9:4 that the night is coming when no man can work. Once again, He is pointing us to the "days of darkness" on the Sabbath when no one can work, the final day of Daniel's 70th week, or the final year before Christ returns to earth.

# Puzzle Pieces 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 & 21:

In the last chapter, we saw how the Great Tribulation could have started on March 22, 2013, immediately after the Abomination that causes Desolation took place. In this chapter, I would like to show how there was another date that the Great Tribulation could have started, but once again it was delayed. This date was May 1, 2013.

Just as the Lord gave Ninevah 40 days before He was going to destroy it, so the world was given a 40-day period until j

udgment. Forty days after March 22, 2013, was May 1, 2013. This was the day that the Great Tribulation was to begin, and was to last for 1260 days until the Day of Atonement in 2016, which I believe will be the second Rapture event for those who were left behind or came to Christ during the Great Tribulation period starting on September 24, 2015.

T

he Bible gives us a 1260-day period of judgment that was to have taken place on the earth. The beast was to have been given 42 months to exercise his authority on the earth without restraint (see Revelation 13:5). The woman (Bride of Christ) was to be taken to a place prepared for her by God for 1260 days (see Revelation 12:6, 14). Daniel speaks of this 1260 days as a "time, times and half a time" (see Daniel 7:25).

D

aniel 12:12 tells us that those who reach the end of the 1335 days are blessed. Haggai 2 tells us that from the 24th day of the 9th month, the Lord will bless us. This is the start of Hanukkah. The first day of Hanukkah (Kislev 25) is the blessed day, the end of the 1335 day count. If we count from May 1, 2013, to December 25, 2016, the first day of Hanukkah, there are 1335 days.

T

he Jewish calendar was off by one month in the years of 2012 and 2013. The Jewish people start their Biblical year in the month of Aviv. The meaning of the word "aviv" is the stage in the growth of grain when the seeds have reached full size and are filling with starch, but have not dried yet. The Jewish people are supposed to wait until the grain is "aviv" before they start their Biblical New Year. However, in modern times, the Jews have a preset calendar that has nothing to do with when the grain ripens in the land of Israel. In the Spring of 2012, the grain was not yet ripe in Israel when the Jewish p

eople started their calendar, so they should have added a 13th month in the Spring of 2012 before starting their Biblical New Year. This would have also pushed back the calendar in the Spring of 2013. There was a 13th month added to the calendar in the Spring of 2014, which should not have been added in 2014, but rather in 2012, when the grain was not "aviv".

What this means is that May 1, 2013, should have been the true 7th day of Unleavened Bread. The Jewish people celebrate 3 festivals every year that last for 7 or 8 days. These are Unleavened Bread, Tabernacles and Hanukkah (which was a second Tabernacles festival added in 165 BC). The 7th day of each of these festivals is a Sabbath and is actually the most important day of the festival. It was on the 7th day of Unleavened Bread that the Israelites crossed the Red Sea, the walls of Jericho fell and when Peter escaped from prison when he was rescued by an angel. All three of these events from the Scriptures foreshadow the rapture taking place on the 7th day of Unleavened Bread.

T

he Israelites crossed over from Egypt (representing the world) into the Promised Land (representing Heaven). The Lord tells us in Exodus 19:4 that He brought the Israelites out on eagles' wings. "You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt, and how I carried you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself." This is a clear reference to Revelation 12:14, where the Bride of Christ is given wings of an eagle to go to a place prepared for her by God to be taken care of for 1260 days. "The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly to the place prepared for her in the wilderness, where she would be t

aken care of for a time, times and half a time, out of the serpent's reach." Jesus told us that He was going to prepare a place for us. John 14:2-3 "My Father's house has many rooms; if that were not so, would I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am."

T

he walls of Jericho falling is another foreshadow of the rapture taking place on the 7th day of Unleavened Bread. The people ascended at the sound of the last trumpet and Jericho was delivered into their hands. Joshua 6:5, "And it shall come to pass, that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when ye hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall ascend up every man straight before him." This is what takes place at the rapture event. 1 Corinthians 15:51-52 "Listen, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed-- in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed." 1 Thessalonians 4:16-17 "For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall always be with the Lord."

I

t was also on the day when the walls of Jericho fell that the silver and gold were first put into the treasury to build the Lord's temple. Joshua 6:19 says, "All the silver and gold and the articles of bronze and iron are sacred to the LORD and must go into his treasury." We are the silver and gold that the Lord is using to build us up into His temple. Haggai 2:7-8 says: "I will shake all nations, and what is desired by all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory,' says the Lord Almighty. 'The silver is mine and the gold is mine,' declares the Lord Almighty. 'The glory of this present house will be greater than the glory of the former house,' says the Lord Almighty. 'And in this place I will grant peace,' declares the Lord Almighty."

P

eter escaping from prison on the 7th day of Unleavened Bread when an angel rescued him was another foreshadow in the Scriptures of the rapture taking place on this day. Peter was about to be killed for his faith in Christ, but on the last day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, an angel came to rescue him from his prison. This world is like a prison for the Bride of Christ and we all long for the day when we can be with Jesus and be free from this world. The 7th day of Unleavened Bread is the day when the Rapture was to have taken place, 1260 days before the Day of Atonement in 2016, and 1335 days before the Second Coming of Christ on Hanukkah in 2016, as was foreshadowed in the Scripture by these 3 important events.

T

here were other events that actually did take place on May 1, 2013, that were signs to those who were watching that this was the date that was supposed to have started the Great Tribulation. May 1, 2013, was a demonic festival called Beltane. It is during this festival that a mockery of the wedding of the Bride of Christ takes place. May 1, 2013, was also the day when the Catholics crowned the virgin Mary, another mockery by Satan of the crowning of the virgin Bride of Christ. May 1, 2013, was also "Mayday", a term used in an emergency as a distress signal when something is about to crash or sink. May 2, 2013, was the day when the New World Trade Center was "crowned", yet another mockery of the crowning of the Bride of Christ.

So, if the Scriptures so clearly pointed to May 1, 2013, as the day when the Great Tribulation was to start and the rapture was to have occurred, why did it not happen on that date? Well, to understand the answer to this question, we need to look at Jonah 4 and Joel 2. Jonah was told to tell Ninevah that in 40 days, their city would be destroyed. The Lord gave Ninevah 40 days and he gave the world 40 days also from the Abomination event on March 22, 2013. The 40 days came and went and Ninevah was not destroyed. The 40 days came and went and the Great Tribulation did not start and the rapture did not happen. So, did God lie? Was He untrue to His Word? Did He not clearly tell Jonah to warn the Ninevites that their city would be destroyed in 40 days? Did He not clearly give us 1260 and 1335-day counts and tell us that the Great Tribulation would last for 42 months?

This is where we must understand that Scripture interprets Scripture. We cannot take one prophecy out of the Bible and think that we have the entire picture. The prophecies all come together to make a puzzle, and only when we have all of the pieces in place can we see the whole picture. Let's look at what Jonah had to say in chapter 4 as to why the Lord did not bring judgment against Ninevah after the 40 days. Jonah 4:2, "I knew that you are a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abounding in love, a God who relents from sending calamity." Jonah is quoting a verse from Joel 2:13, "Return to the Lord your God, for He is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and abounding in love, and He relents from sending calamity." The Lord wants us to put these 2 verses together and look at the context of Joel 2 to see what He is trying to say.

Joel 2 is a description of the "Day of the Lord". It is the most clear chapter in the Bible about what is coming on this "DAY". Please remember that Daniel's 70th week is equal to 7 years and that each day represents a one-year time period; therefore, the "Day of the Lord" is one year, not one day in length. The final "day" of this week would be the "Sabbath" for the Bride of Christ, when Jesus takes His Bride and no longer restrains Satan and darkness comes on the earth as Jesus, the light of the world, is gone with His Bride for that year, no longer fighting the war against Satan and the forces of darkness.

Let's look at what Joel 2 says about the " **Day of the Lord** ". Joel 2:1-2, "Blow the trumpet in Zion; sound the alarm on my holy hill. Let all who live in the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming. It is close at hand — a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and blackness." Joel 2:11, "The day of the Lord is great; it is dreadful. Who can endure it?" Joel 2:31, "The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord."

Let's look at the first 11 verses in Joel 2 and see what other Scriptures say about this event as well: Blow the trumpet in Zion; sound the alarm on my holy hill. Let all who live in the land tremble, for the day of the LORD is coming. It is close at hand-- a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and blackness. Like dawn spreading across the mountains a large and mighty army comes, such as never was of old nor ever will be in ages to come. Before them fire devours, behind them a flame blazes. Before them the land is like the garden of Eden, behind them, a desert waste-- nothing escapes them. They have the appearance of horses; they gallop along like cavalry. With a noise like that of chariots they leap over the mountaintops, like a crackling fire consuming stubble, like a mighty army drawn up for battle. At the sight of them, nations are in anguish; every face turns pale. They charge like warriors; they scale walls like soldiers. They all march in line, not swerving from their course. They do not jostle each other; each marches straight ahead. They plunge through defenses without breaking ranks. They rush upon the city; they run along the wall. They climb into the houses; like thieves they enter through the windows. Before them the earth shakes, the sky trembles, the sun and moon are darkened, and the stars no longer shine. The LORD thunders at the head of his army; his forces are beyond number, and mighty are those who obey his command. The day of the LORD is great; it is dreadful. Who can endure it?"

Revelation 9: "When the fifth angel blew his trumpet, I saw a star that had fallen to earth from the sky. The star was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. It opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and smoke came out of the shaft like the smoke from a large furnace. The sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft. Locusts came out of the smoke onto the earth, and they were given power like that of earthly scorpions...The locusts looked like horses prepared for battle. On their heads were victor's crowns that looked like gold, and their faces were like human faces. They had hair like women's hair and teeth like lions' teeth. They had breastplates like iron, and the noise of their wings was like the roar of chariots with many horses rushing into battle. They had tails and stingers like scorpions, and they had the power to hurt people with their tails for five months. They had the angel of the bottomless pit ruling over them as king. In Hebrew he is called Abaddon, and in Greek he is called Apollyon."

John 10:10 "The thief comes only to steal, slaughter, and destroy. I've come that they may have life, and have it abundantly."

Matthew 24:33 "But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into."

2 Peter 3:10 "But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar; the elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything done in it will be laid bare."

 Notice that Joel 2 mentions the sun will be darkened and the moon turned to blood before the coming of this dreadful "Day of the Lord". Peter quotes from this verse in Acts 2:20, but calls it the glorious "Day of the Lord". For the New Testament saints who are walking with Christ, it will be a glorious day. For those left behind, it will be a dreadful day. Joel 2:10 mentions the sun and moon are darkened at this time. On the Feast of Trumpets in 2015, we have a solar eclipse and the first day of the Feast of Tabernacles, we have a total lunar eclipse, which will be a "super blood moon" seen by all of Jerusalem. Right in between those 2 dates, we have the Day of Atonement on September 23, 2015. So, we have the sun and moon being darkened on the fall feast days. Not only that, but we also had lunar eclipses on the first day of Tabernacles and first day of Unleavened Bread in 2013, 2014 and 2015. The Jewish calendar was off by a month in 2013, so if you move the calendar to where it should have been, you will see that there was actually a lunar eclipse on the first day of Unleavened Bread and Tabernacles that year, as well as in 2014 and 2015. We also had a solar eclipse right on Aviv 1 in 2015 at the start of the Biblical New Year. Jesus told us to watch for the signs in the sun, moon and stars. Please look at Graph 8a to see the unbelievable fingerprint of God on this "tetrad". It is unlike anything ever seen before in human history.

Now, let's look at what else Joel 2 tells us about this day. Joel 2:15-16 "Blow the trumpet in Zion, declare a holy fast, call a sacred assembly. Gather the people, consecrate the assembly; bring together the elders, gather the children, those nursing at the breast. Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber." In this verse, we see the trumpet sounding, a holy fast being declared and a sacred assembly called. All three of these take place on the Day of Atonement. Numbers 29:7, "Ten days later, on the tenth day of the same month, you must call another holy assembly. On that day, the Day of Atonement, the people must go without food and must do no ordinary work." Leviticus 25:9, "Then have the trumpet sounded everywhere on the tenth day of the seventh month; on the Day of Atonement sound the trumpet throughout your land." The Bridegroom is to leave his room to get His Bride from her chamber.

Joel 2:31-32, "The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the LORD. And everyone who calls on the name of the LORD will be saved; for on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be deliverance, as the LORD has said, among the survivors whom the LORD calls."

Luke 21:36, "Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man."

Revelation 6:12-17, "And I beheld when He had opened the sixth seal, and lo, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood; and the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs when she is shaken by a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains; and they said to the mountains and rocks, "Fall on us, and hide us from the face of Him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb! For the great Day of His wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand?"

Psalm 24:3-4, "Who may ascend the mountain of the LORD? Who may stand in his holy place? The one who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not trust in an idol or swear by a false god."

# Puzzle Pieces 22 & 23:

I have already established in previous chapters that the "Day of the Lord" is referring to the final day of Daniel's 70th week. The last day of a week is considered to be a Sabbath, when no one should work. The Bride of Christ will enter her rest and our Bridegroom Jesus will no longer restrain Satan. I would like to look at some of the Scriptures that talk about the Day of the Lord, which is also referred to as an "hour" in some passages.

  1.  Isaiah 13:6 Wail, for the day of the Lord is at hand! It will come as destruction from the Almighty.

  2.  Isaiah 13:9 Behold, the day of the Lord comes, Cruel, with both wrath and fierce anger, To lay the land desolate; And He will destroy its sinners from it.

  3.  Isaiah 34:8 For it is the day of the Lord's vengeance, The year of recompense for the cause of Zion.

  4.  Jeremiah 46:10 For this is the day of the Lord God of hosts, A day of vengeance, That He may avenge Himself on His adversaries. The sword shall devour; It shall be satiated and made drunk with their blood; For the Lord God of hosts has a sacrifice In the north country by the River Euphrates.

  5.  Ezekiel 30:3 For the day is near, Even the day of the Lord is near; It will be a day of clouds, the time of the Gentiles.

  6.  Joel 1:15 Alas for the day! For the day of the Lord is at hand; It shall come as destruction from the Almighty.

  7.  Joel 2:1 Blow the trumpet in Zion, And sound an alarm in My holy mountain! Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble; For the day of the Lord is coming, For it is at hand:

  8.  Joel 2:11 The Lord gives voice before His army, For His camp is very great; For strong is the One who executes His word. For the day of the Lord is great and very terrible; Who can endure it?

  9.  Joel 2:31 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible day of the LORD come.

  10.  Joel 3:14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision.

  11.  Amos 5:18 Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord! For what good is the day of the Lord to you? It will be darkness, and not light.

  12.  Amos 5:20 Is not the day of the Lord darkness, and not light? Is it not very dark, with no brightness in it?

  13.  Obadiah 1:15 "For the day of the Lord upon all the nations is near; As you have done, it shall be done to you; Your reprisal shall return upon your own head.

  14.  Zephaniah 1:7 Be silent in the presence of the Lord God; For the day of the Lord is at hand, For the Lord has prepared a sacrifice; He has invited His guests.

  15.  Zephaniah 1:14 The great day of the Lord is near; It is near and hastens quickly. The noise of the day of the Lord is bitter; There the mighty men shall cry out.

  16.  Zephaniah 1:18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the Lord's wrath; but the whole land shall be devoured by the fire of His jealousy, for He will make speedy riddance of all those who dwell in the land.

17.  Zephaniah 2:3 Seek the Lord, all you meek of the earth, who have upheld His justice. Seek righteousness, seek humility. It may be that you will be hidden in the day of the Lord's anger.

18.   Acts 2:20 The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord.

19.   2 Peter 3:10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat; both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up.

20. Revelation 17:12 The ten horns which you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but they receive authority as kings with the beast for one hour.

21. Revelation 18:10 `Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city! For in one hour your judgment has come.'

22. Matthew 24:36 Mark 13:32 But about that day or hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.

23. Luke 12:39 But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have allowed his house to be broken into.

24. 1 John 2:18 Children, it is the last hour; and just as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have appeared; from this we know that it is the last hour.

25. Revelation 14:7 And he said with a loud voice, "Fear God, and give Him glory, because the hour of His judgment has come; worship Him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and springs of waters."

26. Zechariah 14 Behold, the day of the Lord is coming, and your spoil will be divided in your midst. For I will gather all the nations to battle against Jerusalem; The city shall be taken,the houses rifled, and the women ravished. Half of the city shall go into captivity, but the remnant of the people shall not be cut off from the city.

S

o here we have half that are taken and half that are left as in the parable of the ten virgins (see Matthew 25). Zechariah then goes on to say,

It shall come to pass in that day  
That there will be no light;  
The lights will diminish.  
It shall be one day  
Which is known to the Lord—  
Neither day nor night.  
But at evening time it shall happen  
That it will be light.

S

o, we see that it lasts for one day, or one year. It becomes total darkness, with no light, but at the evening, or end of the day, which is the end of the year, there will be light again.

When Jesus told us that no one knows about that day or hour, not the angels and not even Himself, but only the Father, He was not referring to the timing of the rapture event. He was telling us that He does not know about what will take place on that "day" because He will not be present. He has been at war with Satan and his evil forces since the beginning, but during that final year before He returns to earth, He will not be there fighting Satan any longer. Satan will no longer be restrained and only the Father Himself is aware of what will take place during that day (year). Jesus, our Bridegroom, will be with us for one year, as the Scriptures teach that a bridegroom should not fight in any war or engage in business for the first year of the marriage.

1 Thessalonians 5:1-5, "Now, brothers and sisters, about times and dates we do not need to write to you, for you know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying, "Peace and safety," destruction will come on them suddenly, as labor pains on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you, brothers and sisters, are not in darkness so that this day should surprise you like a thief. You are all children of the light and children of the day. We do not belong to the night or to the darkness."

P

aul is telling the church that this "day of the Lord" should not surprise us like a thief because we do not belong to the darkness, but to the light. Jesus warns us in Matthew 24 to watch the signs so that the thief does not break into our house unexpectedly. He says that if the owner of the house had known at what time the thief was coming, he would not have let the thief break into his house. Matthew 24: 42-43, "Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come. But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into." What I believe Jesus is warning us in this passage is this: we do not know when He is coming – it is not something that we intrinsically know. Only through watching the signs and studying the prophecies and through revelation given by God can we know when Jesus will come. If we will watch the signs and study the prophecies, then we can know when the thief is coming so that we are not caught unaware and end up being left behind because we are worldly and self-centered, not living wholeheartedly for Jesus. The obvious implication of Matthew 24 is that if we are not watching, the thief will come at a time when we are not expecting and we will be caught off-guard and our "house" will be broken into. And if we are not watching, Jesus Himself will come at a time when we do not expect Him and we could be left behind.

# Puzzle Piece 24 & 25:

J

udas Maccabees rode into Jerusalem after defeating the evil Antiochus IV right on Kislev 25. The people waved palm branches and cried out, "Blessed is he who comes in the Name of the Lord!" It was a foreshadow of Jesus riding into Jerusalem on the 10th day of Nisan 200 years later, and it was also a foreshadow of Jesus returning to earth at the Second Coming right on Kislev 25, as the people cry out, "Blessed is He who comes in the Name of the Lord!" Jesus told us that the Jewish people would not see Him again until they cry out, "Blessed is He who comes in the Name of the Lord!" A second Feast of Tabernacles was started on Kislev 25, which is still celebrated and is called Hanukkah. The temple had been defiled and the Jewish people had not been able to properly celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles for many years. On Kislev 25, the temple was rededicated to the Lord, and an 8-day celebration began, which is Hanukkah (meaning re-dedication). In 2016, Kislev 25 falls right on Christmas Day. Mr. Obama said that he would win the war on Christmas in his second term. Satan knows that this is the final day of the war and he either thinks he can defeat Jesus or is lying and claiming to believe that.

I believe that Jesus will return to the earth on Christmas Day in 2016, after the Year of Jubilee has finished for the raptured Saints, and after the second Rapture event during the fall feasts in 2016 for those who were left behind or came to Christ during the Great Tribulation. From then on, Zechariah tells us that the Feast of Tabernacles will be celebrated during the 1000-year New Millennium. The "temple" (Body of Christ) is no longer "defiled" and the Feast of Tabernacles can be celebrated at the proper time for the New Millennium.

T

hen the survivors from all the nations that have attacked Jerusalem will go up year after year to worship the King, the Lord Almighty, and to celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles. If any of the peoples of the earth do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord Almighty, they will have no rain. If the Egyptian people do not go up and take part, they will have no rain. The Lord will bring on them the plague he inflicts on the nations that do not go up to celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles. This will be the punishment of Egypt and the punishment of all the nations that do not go up to celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles. (Zechariah 14:16-19)

May 1, 2013, was 1260 days before the Day of Atonement in 2016 and 1335 days before the start of Hanukkah in 2016. Haggai 2

tells us that the blessed day is from the end of the 24th of Kislev and Daniel 12 tells us that those who reach the end of the 1335 days are blessed. The "blessed day" is December 25, 2016, the end of the 1335-day count and the 25th day of Kislev. May 1, 2013, was also 40 days after the abomination was set up. Just as Ninevah was given a 40-day warning before judgment, so the desolation event was scheduled to take place on May 1, 2013, a  ccording to the prophecies. However, the Lord is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and abounding in love. He does not enjoy sending calamity or judgment and just as He delayed the judgment against Ninevah, so this was a foreshadow to us in the Scriptures of His delaying His judgment on the world and holding it back for as long as possible in order that more souls will be brought into His Kingdom.

S

anta Claus coming on Christmas Eve with his sleigh of good gifts for the children of the world is a poor imitation of what will really take place on that day. Jesus Christ will come in all of His glory and splendor with His radiant Bride to reclaim the earth. All these years, we have been singing, "Oh come, oh come, Immanuel" at Christmas time. And that is exactly when Jesus is coming.

O come, O come, Emmanuel  
And ransom captive Israel  
That mourns in lonely exile here  
Until the Son of God appear  
Rejoice! Rejoice! Emmanuel  
Shall come to thee, O Israel.

O come, Thou Rod of Jesse, free  
Thine own from Satan's tyranny  
From depths of Hell Thy people save  
And give them victory o'er the grave  
Rejoice! Rejoice! Emmanuel  
Shall come to thee, O Israel.

O come, Thou Day-Spring, come and cheer  
Our spirits by Thine advent here  
Disperse the gloomy clouds of night  
And death's dark shadows put to flight.  
Rejoice! Rejoice! Emmanuel  
Shall come to thee, O Israel.

O come, Thou Key of David, come,  
And open wide our heavenly home;  
Make safe the way that leads on high,  
And close the path to misery.  
Rejoice! Rejoice! Emmanuel  
Shall come to thee, O Israel.

O come, O come, Thou Lord of might,  
Who to Thy tribes, on Sinai's height,  
In ancient times did'st give the Law,  
In cloud, and majesty and awe.  
Rejoice! Rejoice! Emmanuel  
Shall come to thee, O Israel.

Oh, come, Desire of nations, bind  
In one the hearts of all mankind;  
Oh, bid our sad divisions cease,  
And be yourself our King of Peace.  
Rejoice! Rejoice! Emmanuel  
Shall come to you, O Israel!

# Puzzle Piece 26:

I n the book of Esther, we see how the beautiful Queen Vashti rejected the King on the 7th day of a feast and 4 years later, the chosen virgin Esther was crowned as Queen in her place on the first of Tivet, which would later become the 7th day of Hanukkah. America, the beautiful, the Queen of Revelation 18, rejected Jesus on election day in 2012, which was the true 7th day of the Feast of Tabernacles because the Jewish calendar was a month off in 2012 and 2013. I believe that 4 years later, the Bride of Christ will be crowned as Queen of the Earth on the 7th day of Hanukkah and will begin to reign with Jesus for 1000 years on Sunday, January 1, 2017, the 8th day of Hanukkah, the first day of the week, of the month, of the year, and of the "New Millennium". The Feast of Tabernacles is then celebrated every year at the proper time by all nations (see Zechariah 14), because the "temple" (that is the body of Christ) is no longer defiled.

I

n Haggai 2, we read how that the Lord was going to institute a second Feast of Tabernacles for those who were defiled, just as He instituted a second Passover for those who were defiled and could not celebrate Passover at the proper time. He tells us in Haggai 2 that it would start from the 24th day of Kislev. Over 200 years later, this second Feast of Tabernacles began, when Judas Maccabees rode into Jerusalem on the 25th day of Kislev and rededicated the temple to the Lord and they celebrated the Feast of Tabernacles at that time for 8 days because they had been unable to celebrate it for several years. They decided to continue this second Feast of Tabernacles every year and call it Hanukkah. The seventh day of Hanukkah falls on Tivet 1 or 2 every year, the same day that the chosen virgin Esther was crowned as Queen four years after Queen Vashti had rejected King Xerxes on the 7th day of a Feast.

N

ow the king was attracted to Esther more than to any of the other women, and she won his favor and approval more than any of the other virgins. So he set a royal crown on her head and made her queen instead of Vashti. (Esther 2:17)

Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb, standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his F

ather's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a sound from heaven like the roar of rushing waters and like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps. And they sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they remained virgins. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among mankind and offered as firstfruits to God and the Lamb. No lie was found in their mouths; they are blameless. (Revelation 14:1-5)

T

hen the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. But at midnight there was a cry, 'Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.' Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.' But the wise answered, saying, 'Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves.' And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut. (Matthew 25:1-10)

I

n Revelation 18, we read about a "queen" who is very boastful. Revelation 18:7-8, 10, 23 "In her heart she boasts, 'I sit as queen; I am not a widow, and I will never mourn.' Therefore in one day her plagues will overtake her: death, mourning and famine. She will be consumed by fire, for mighty is the Lord God who judges her...Terrified at her torment, they will stand far off and cry: " 'Woe! Woe, O great city, O Babylon, city of power! In one hour your doom has come!... The light of a lamp will never shine in you again. The voice of bridegroom and bride will never be heard in you again."

Here we see how the judgment comes in one day, or one hour. This is the "Day of the Lord", which is also referred to as an hour in the Scriptures. It is the "day and hour" that Jesus said He does not know about. The reason that the light will not shine there again is because Jesus is the light of the world and He will be leaving. The reason the voice of the Bridegroom and Bride will not be heard is because Jesus, our Bridegroom, will be taking His Bride and leaving with her.

A merica represents this "queen" in Revelation 18. She will be judged for rejecting her King on the 7th day of the Feast of Tabernacles, in 2009, when Mr. Obama was chosen as the Nobel Peace Prize winner and again in 2012, when America chose Mr. Obama again to be their leader instead of a man who represented morals and character. America will no longer be the leader among the nations of the world. There is a new queen that will be crowned on December 31, 2016, on the 7th day of Hanukkah, the first day of the month of Tivet. The New Millennium will begin on Sunday, January 1, 2017, the first day of the week, first week of the year, and first year of the New Millennium.

# Puzzle Piece 27:

September 23rd is the 266th day of the year. The human gestation period from conception to birth is 266 days. The Day of the Lord comes as a woman going into labor. September 23rd is the 266th day on the Gentile solar calendar. The 7th day of Hanukkah is the 266th day on the Jewish lunar calendar. The Lord is going to turn His attention from the Gentiles, back to the Jews. The times of the Gentiles are nearly finished. On September 23, 2015, the 266th day of the Gentile year, the birthing begins as the Day of the Lord starts. The 7th day of Hanukkah in 2016 is when the B ride of Christ is crowned as Queen of the Earth with King Jesus, just as the chosen virgin Queen Esther was crowned on what would later become the 7th day of Hanukkah. This is when the Lord brings the Gentiles together with the Jews and crowns His Bride as Queen of the Earth. When the Jewish people finally recognize Jesus as their Messiah and say, "Blessed is He who comes in the Name of the Lord!" on the start of Hanukkah in 2016, Jesus will return to earth on Christmas Day and then crown the Bride of Christ, Jewish and Gentile, on the 7th day of Hanukkah and the birthing of His new nation that will reign for 1000 years is complete.

Let's read some Scripture passages that compare the Day of the Lord to a woman going into labor and giving birth:

Now, brothers and sisters, about times and dates we do not need to write to you, for you know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying, "Peace and safety," destruction will come on them suddenly, as labor pains on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. But you, brothers and sisters, are not in darkness so that this day should surprise you like a thief. You are all children of the light and children of the day. We do not belong to the night or to the darkness. 1 Thessalonians 5:1-6

V

ery truly I tell you, you will weep and mourn while the world rejoices. You will grieve, but your grief will turn to joy. A woman giving birth to a child has pain because her time has come; but when her baby is born she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. So with you: Now is your time of grief, but I will see you again and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. In that day you will no longer ask me anything. Very truly I tell you, my Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. John 16:20-23

As a woman with child and about to give birth writhes and cries out in her pain, so were we in your presence, O LORD. We were with child, we writhed in pain, but we gave birth to wind. We have not brought salvation to the earth; we have not given birth to people of the world. But your dead will live; their bodies will rise. You who dwell in the dust, wake up and shout for joy. Your dew is like the dew of the morning; the earth will give birth to her dead. Go, my people, enter your rooms and shut the doors behind you; hide yourselves for a little while until his wrath has passed by. See, the LORD is coming out of his dwelling to punish the people of the earth for their sins. The earth will disclose the blood shed upon her; she will conceal her slain no longer. Isaiah 26:17-21

A  great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head. She was pregnant and cried out in pain as she was about to give birth. Then another sign appeared in heaven: an enormous red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on its heads. Its tail swept a third of the stars out of the sky and flung them to the earth. The dragon stood in front of the woman who was about to give birth, so that it might devour her child the moment he was born. She gave birth to a son, a male child, who "will rule all the nations with an iron scepter." And her child was snatched up to God and to his throne. The woman fled into the wilderness to a place prepared for her by God... Revelation 12

Hear that uproar from the city, hear that noise from the temple! It is the sound of the LORD repaying his enemies all they deserve. "Before she goes into labor, she gives birth; before the pains come upon her, she delivers a son. Who has ever heard of such a thing? Who has ever seen such things? Can a country be born in a day or a nation be brought forth in a moment? Yet no sooner is Zion in labor than she gives birth to her children. Do I bring to the moment of birth and not give delivery?" says the LORD. "Do I close up the womb when I bring to delivery?" says your God. "Rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her, all you who love her; rejoice greatly with her, all you who mourn over her. For you will nurse and be satisfied at her comforting breasts; you will drink deeply and delight in her overflowing abundance." For this is what the LORD says: "I will extend peace to her like a river, and the wealth of nations like a flooding stream; you will nurse and be carried on her arm and dandled on her knees. As a mother comforts her child, so will I comfort you; and you will be comforted over Jerusalem." When you see this, your heart will rejoice and you will flourish like grass; the hand of the LORD will be made known to his servants, but his fury will be shown to his foes. See, the LORD is coming with fire, and his chariots are like a whirlwind; he will bring down his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire. For with fire and with his sword the LORD will execute judgment upon all men, and many will be those slain by the LORD. "Those who consecrate and purify themselves to go into the gardens, following the one in the midst of those who eat the flesh of pigs and rats and other abominable things--they will meet their end together," declares the LORD. "And I, because of their actions and their imaginations, am about to come and gather all nations and tongues, and they will come and see my glory. "I will set a sign among them, and I will send some of those who survive to the nations... and to the distant islands that have not heard of my fame or seen my glory. They will proclaim my glory among the nations. Isaiah 66:6-19

Wail, for the day of the LORD is near; it will come like destruction from the Almighty. Because of this, all hands will go limp, every man's heart will melt. Terror will seize them, pain and anguish will grip them; they will writhe like a woman in l abor. They will look aghast at each other, their faces aflame. See, the day of the LORD is coming --a cruel day, with wrath and fierce anger-- to make the land desolate and destroy the sinners within it. The stars of heaven and their constellations will not show their light. The rising sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light. I will punish the world for its evil, the wicked for their sins. I will put an end to the arrogance of the haughty and will humble the pride of the ruthless. I will make man scarcer than pure gold, more rare than the gold of Ophir. Therefore I will make the heavens tremble; and the earth will shake from its place at the wrath of the LORD Almighty, in the day of his burning anger. Isaiah 13:6-13

Puzzle Pieces 28, 29 & 30

John 11:9-10 - Jesus answered, "Are there not twelve hours of daylight? Anyone who walks in the daytime will not stumble, for they see by this world's light. It is when a person walks at night that they stumble, for they have no light."

Once again, the Lord is leaving behind a big clue for us when He said this at the time when he raised the dead. There are 2 times every year when there are 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of darkness all over the world. This is on the Spring and Fall Equinox. **September 23, 2015, the Day of Atonement, is the Fall Equinox, when there are 12 hours of day and night all over the world.** After mentioning the 12 hours of daylight, Jesus then goes on to say the words "no light". I believe He is connecting the 12 hours of daylight to the time when the world will then have no light. I looked up the word night in this verse in S trong's Concordance and here is what I found. The word used for night there is nyx and it means night, the time when work ceases, the time of death, the time for deeds of sin and shame, the time of moral stupidity and darkness, the time when the weary and also the drunken give themselves up to slumber.

Mr. Obama rode into Jerusalem in 2013 right on the S pring Equinox. Two days later, he went to the Church of the Nativity and stood in the holy place where he did not belong. Counting from that day until the Second Coming of Christ on December 25, 2016, there are 1374 days. If we divide 1374 by 3, the total number of days is 458. Why would we divide the days by 3? **Because the fourth trumpet judgment in Revelation tells us that 1/3 of the time (or the day and night) will be without light.** This is the time when Jesus, the light of the world, will leave with His Bride and total darkness will come upon the earth. **This 458-day period begins on September 24, 2015, the day after the Day of Atonement, and ends on December 25, 2016, when Jesus comes back to the earth with His Bride at the start of Hanukkah, on Christmas Day. The gates of heaven will close at the end of the Day of Atonement in 2015 and the days of darkness will then begin.**

December 21, 2016, is the winter solstice, and will be the darkest day of the year for 2016. When Jesus died, the day turned dark as the Son of God was crucified, and a time of great mourning for the disciples and followers of Jesus began. But 3 days later, hope came to life as Jesus rose from the grave and defeated death, hell and the power of the grave. So also, just as December 21, 2016, will be the darkest day of the year in the natural realm, three days later, on the 24th day of Kislev, Christmas Eve, hope will come to life as Jesus returns to the earth with His Bride to rule and reign and defeat Satan and the forces of evil. Haggai 2 tells us that from this day on, we will be b lessed. This is when the Jewish people will finally recognize Jesus as their Messiah and will cry out, "Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!" Just as Judas Macabees rode into Jerusalem on the 25th day of Kislev and the people cried out, "Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!" and Hanukkah began when the temple was rededicated to the Lord, so also, on the 25th day of Kislev in 2 016, Jesus will ride into Jerusalem with His Bride and reclaim the earth. It will not be Santa Claus riding in on Christmas Eve with his sleigh of gifts for the good children of the world, but it will be Jesus Christ coming with His Bride. Mr. Obama said that he will win the war on Christmas in his second term. Satan still believes that somehow he is going to defeat Jesus at this battle, or else he is lying and claiming to believe it. Either way, he is going to lose and the days of darkness will end on Christmas in 2016, when Jesus, the light of the world returns and defeats Satan at the final battle. The Bride of Christ, Jewish and Gentile, will then be crowned as Queen of the earth on the 7th day of Hanukkah, as was foreshadowed by the chosen virgin Queen Esther being crowned on what would become the 7th day of Hanukkah, 4 years after the beautiful Queen Vashti rejected her king on the 7th day of a feast.

So, I just wanted to point out the connection between the 12 hours of daylight mentioned in John 11:9, which points us to the fall equinox on September 23, 2015, and Jesus then mentioning in verse 10 about the night, or the time when no one can work, and then He mentions no light. Zechariah 14:6 tells us that it will be **a day with no light. This is the final day of Daniel's 70** th **week that starts in the fall of 2015, when the Sabbath rest for the Bride of Christ starts and the days of darkness for those left behind begin.** Martha tells Jesus in verse 24 that s he knows her brother will rise on the **last day**. This is the **last day of Daniel's 70** th **week** , when the dead in Christ rise and the Bride of Christ escapes the wrath of God at the time of the rapture. This is a day known only to the Father because the Son will not be here for that final day and hour, or that final year.

For those left behind

E

lijah being taken to heaven was a foreshadow of the rapture event. Elisha represents those who have been left behind and Elijah represents those who were taken. Elisha tore his robes when he saw Elijah being taken. This is symbolic of repentance. Elisha then went out with a double portion of anointing from the Lord to do incredible things.

A

lthough Jesus has taken His Bride and total darkness has now come upon the earth as Satan is no longer restrained, please know that God still wants to use you to do great things during this final year. Many souls are still going to come into God's Kingdom during this time. Sometimes it takes tragic events to wake people up from their sleep and turn their eyes to God.

Please use this book to show the lost that what took place was prophesied thousands of years ago to happen exactly when it happened. God left His Word as a gift to humanity to reveal Himself and His master plan for the world. He is in control and He is coming back in December 2016. You may have to die for your faith in Christ, but please realize what a tremendous honor it is to lay down your life for Christ, just as He laid down His to purchase your eternal salvation. A moment of pain for a lifetime of pure joy – it is well worth whatever suffering you might have to endure to spend eternity ruling and reining with Christ in a place where this is no sadness or pain forever. Use whatever small amount of time you have left on this earth to make a difference for eternity and bring souls into the Kingdom.

I

f you are reading this book and have never accepted Christ as your Lord and Savior, now is the time to do so. Your time on this earth is nearly over and there is little time left for you to decide where you would like to spend eternity. The Bible teaches that it is appointed unto man once to die and then the judgment. Not one person on this planet can stand before God without sin and shame, because the Bible says that we have all sinned and fallen short of God's glory. Jesus came to earth, lived a perfect life, and then died in your place on the cross, taking your punishment on Himself. You no longer have to stand before God with sin and shame or have to pay for your sins because the payment has already been made. You must simply believe in Jesus Christ and accept what He has done for you on the cross. Ask God to forgive you for your sins and to change you and make you into a new creature, replacing your old sinful nature with His divine nature. Allow Him to cleanse you and come into your life. He wants to have a relationship with you that will last for all eternity. Salvation is a free gift and it cannot be earned by doing good works.

For 6000 years, God has been gracious and forgiving toward man and has not allowed Satan to have full control of earth. When Jesus died on the cross, He dealt Satan a fatal blow and defeated death, Hell and the power of the grave once and for all. Just as Jesus rose up from the dead, so also, we will rise and be given new bodies, just as Jesus received 3 days after He was crucified. The Bible tells us that Satan would bruise the heal of Jesus, but that Jesus would crush Satan's head.

However, for this final year before Christ returns to earth, the age of grace is finished, and the day of God's wrath has begun. Satan's fatal head wound has temporarily been healed and he now has the freedom to do as he pleases on earth without Jesus stopping Him. Please know that God is a God of perfect love and order and the chaos you see all around you happening right now is from Satan and his evil forces. God is simply giving mankind what they have deserved all along because of their sin, in hope that more people will turn to faith in Him before their fate is eternally sealed. God is still giving you the opportunity to come to Him and repent of your sin. Do it today before you run out of time and end up separated from God's love for all eternity. The Hell that you are now experiencing is nothing compared to eternity of total darkness and separation from God that awaits all who do not accept His free gift of salvation before they die.

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. John 3:16-19

And this is the testimony, that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life. 1 John 5:11-13

If you declare with your mouth, "Jesus is Lord," and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Romans 10:9

