
The Broken Platoon

The Only Ones, Volume 3

Taylor Evans

Published by Taylor Evans, 2017.
This is a work of fiction. Similarities to real people, places, or events are entirely coincidental.

THE BROKEN PLATOON

**First edition. April 20, 2017.**

Copyright (C) 2017 Taylor Evans.

Written by Taylor Evans.

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

# Table of Contents

Title Page

Copyright Page

Dedication

The Broken Platoon (The Only Ones, #3)

Further Reading: The Beast Inside Me

Also By Taylor Evans

About the Author

#

To the ones who survived hell and came back fighting, you are the light we need to see in this world.

 _(And this world needs light more than ever)_
Warning! This eBook Contains Inmates That Have Rioted The Entire City, Making It Into A War Zone. The Fighting Might Be Dramatically Upsetting And May Cause An Abrupt Outburst Of Anger. If You Have A Problem With Wars, Killing, Chaos and Hardships, You May Want To Consider Avoiding Reading Passed This Message. Then Again, I'm Just Words In The Beginning Of This Ebook.

YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!

Enjoy Only If You Dare!

--------

PS. Keep Reading For A Special Preview Of My New Upcoming Book 'Jack' !

A Novel about pit bull discrimination and abuse.

CHAPTER ONE

We had work to do. And work we did do. Joey never pushed us harder after that night. After he got off of the phone with Ryan, it was like something took over him. He pushed us like he was training us for a war. He didn't joke around like he normally would do to enlighten the mood. He let us feel the silence, but the moment our thoughts started to take over, he helped us continue to fight.

And we did fight. We fought to take down the two bastards that ruined this city and our lives. Ryan said he wanted a war, and a war he was going to get.

Joey introduced us to some of his old friends. At first I wasn't so sure, but he soon showed us otherwise.

"Okay, let me get this straight..." Josh rubbed his chin, "That crazy guy with the bank that almost killed you, has two brothers. Whom, both of which tried to kill you, but you ended up killing the oldest, and left him alive because he helped you get him. And that this guy is their cousin? Please, stop me if I'm wrong."

I stood with my arms crossed, watching and studying the newcomers with suspicion. Joey looked at Bobby, who looked at his cousin, Marshall and nodded.

"Yeah, pretty much, man." Marshall said.

"And you trust them why?" Josh looked over to Joey.

"Because Sean and Ken did, and that's good enough for me." Joey informed him.

He nodded and backed up. Sam came in from the computer room and looked at us.

"Jake's got something you'd wanna see." he said.

Joey nodded and walked passed the newbies and went into the computer room with him. I sighed and looked at Josh who gave me a look as we followed them inside the room.

"I found someone snooping around Ryan and Kyle's files. There was an undocumented file that was opened recently and before they could know about it, I intercepted it to take a look at who exactly was digging through this crap." Jake informed as he pressed things on the computer.

"Did you find out who it was?" Joey asked him.

He nodded and with a swipe of his finger, pulled up a map of the city. He zoomed in and pointed to a red dot that was by the water.

"I traced the hacker to this location. Whoever opened those files did it at the south harbor." he said.

I looked at Joey who nodded.

"We have to find out who that is. Before Ryan and Kyle find out about it. Which document was opened?" he asked Jake.

Jake sighed, "I don't know. The date it was closed was 4/14/01."

"Whoa, what?" James' head popped up, "That was the day my old partner went missing."

"Dean?" Joey asked him.

He nodded and Alan shook his head.

"See? I told you there was somethin' about that bloody wanker that wasn't right." Alan said.

"That still doesn't mean he's not with us." Joey sighed and looked at Bobby and Marshall behind me.

"You two, Sam, Wade, and Josh are both coming with me. We're going to find whoever this person is that opened that file. James talk to Dean, ask him what really happened to him in those 15 years he was MIA. Jake look for anything else we could use to find and take down Ryan and Kyle," Joey looked us through, "And Alan and Kevin, I want you two on a supply run. Keep in the shadows and do whatever means to keep alive and away from Ryan and his agents. Bring back water, food, and weapons. Anything that you think could help us survive."

"I could call Jackson." James suggested.

Joey looked at him and nodded, "Yes. Please do. Tell him the Sit Rep and ask him if he could spare any weapons and ammo. Tell him thanks."

James nodded and left the room. Joey turned to me and the others and nodded.

"Time to go. Gear up." he ordered.

We gathered our gear, and grabbed our weapons as we followed him up the latter and outside.

CHAPTER TWO

We ran cover to cover, trying to avoid light spots that could let Ryan's agents see us. We kept quiet. Kept our eyes on Joey, who was leading us to where we were going. He held up his fist and told us to get down. I quickly got behind Josh as we all froze and bent down.

"Paper always beats rock, that's what I've been trying to tell you, Jayson." two agents appeared from behind a parked truck.

They both had on the Triton mask, a black one with blue markings that resembled spray paint splatter on the face area. Only their eyes were shown, but just barely. They stopped about five feet from us. Joey turned to us and gave us a 'take them down' hand signal.

Josh and Marshall both went behind the two men, and, simultaneously took them out by grabbing them from behind and slicing their necks as they held their mouths so no sound was heard. They then drug their bodies out of sight and Joey regrouped us behind the building that was to our right.

"The South Harbor is just up here. Just a few more blocks to go." Joey informed us.

Josh nodded and wiped his nose, "Is there a quicker way to do this?"

Joey looked around and let out a sigh. He scanned the area then nodded and turned to us.

"Actually, there is," he said, "But, it's more dangerous."

He pointed to the right, "There's a bunch of trucks carrying Triton Agents over there going right by the harbor, we could hitch a ride on the last one and get there in like five minutes. But, like I said, it's risking it big time."

"Well it'll be quicker, so I say let's do it." I said.

Joey nodded and nodded towards the right.

"On me." he said then bent down and sprinted towards the group of agents.

"This is literally insane." Josh sighed and followed behind him.

Sam and I looked at one another as Marshall and Bobby followed behind Josh. I raised my eyebrows and went behind Marshall and Bobby as Sam followed behind me.

Joey signaled for us to get down behind a turned over trash bin and wait for his call. He looked over his shoulder, keeping a fist in the air for us to hold still. Seconds past before he lowered his fist and gave us the 'on me' signal and he started off, running towards the trucks.

The last truck had its back open and Joey jumped in underneath the tarp that covered the top of it. Josh and I ran behind it, trying to catch up. Joey hung out of the back of it, holding out his hand to help us on.

Marshall and the others came up quickly behind us. Josh and I jumped on the back of the truck then helped the others on and closed the tarp so we weren't seen. Loud music was played from the truck we were in. Before we jumped on, I saw the driver singing, he obviously wasn't paying any attention to see us jump into his tailgate.

"When do we get off?" Marshall asked Joey.

Joey cleared his throat and looked at us, "On my call, we'll jump out."

We nodded and Josh looked at Joey uneasily, but Joey wasn't paying attention. He kept his eyes out on the streets, watching the area, waiting for us to be able to jump off.

"Okay get ready," Joey shifted his stance, "Now."

He jumped off and dipped behind a turned over car. The rest of us copied him, one by one we all jumped off quickly as possible to make sure we got off behind the overturned car. Bobby and I were the last ones on.

"Go." I hissed, holding on to the side of the truck.

He gulped and I saw the look of uncertainty in his eyes. I looked up at Joey as he looked over the turned car towards us.

"Look, if you don't go. We're both dea--"

The truck slammed on it's brakes, throwing us backwards into the truck. Some of the boxes that were around us fell on top of Bobby and I. One struck me on the head. I pushed the boxes off of me as I sat up, my head stinging with a bit of pain.

"Why the hell did you do that?" a voice yelled from the front of the truck.

"Grab your gun, I saw someone jump from the truck." another voice said.

I looked over to Bobby who was looking at me. I put my finger in front of my lips to tell him to stay quiet while I tried to think up a plan. Shadows from both sides of the truck made my heart beat faster. There were only two of them, and there were two of us. I nodded to Bobby, telling him to stand and get ready.

I couldn't risk using a loud weapon. I quickly ripped out a army knife from my pant leg and held up so Bobby could catch the drift. He quickly dug in his pocket and took out his blade as well.

The two agents got closer to the back of the truck. The boxes fell when the truck slammed on its brakes, so we barely had cover. I got behind two large boxes and waited for the right moment to overtake one of the agents, hoping Bobby could do the same.

"There's no one here, man." one of the agents said.

"I'm telling you man, I saw someone."

"Well, whoever they were, they're gone now." the agent said.

I looked at Bobby, who kept his eyes on me, and gave him a look that told him to take them out. I then gripped my blade and came out from behind the boxes and charged the closest one. Bobby jumped up and charged the other agent who was next to me. We both caught them with surprise. The agent I charged saw me coming and raised his pistol as I jumped in front of him. I kicked the pistol out of his hand and jabbed my blade into his stomach. He yelled out in pain as I covered his mouth with my hand and made a shushing sound.

A gurgling sound was made and the agent next to me dropped to ground in blood. Bobby had slit his throat. I pulled the blade from the agents stomach then pushed him back and sliced his neck open with a swift thrust of my arm. I twirled the blade in my hand as the agent's lifeless body collapsed to the ground in a pool of blood,

A whistle brought our attention to the overturned car a few feet in front of us, Joey had a silenced pistol in his hand as he waved for us to go over there.

Bobby looked at me and gave a sigh, "He's gonna be pissed."

I looked over to Joey and shrugged, "He'll get over it."

I started towards him with Bobby behind me.

"What were you thinking?" Joey asked us as we came around the overturned car.

"Hey, I'm not the one who suggested going on a suicide mission. We did what was necessary. It's a killed or be killed world now, man." I pushed passed him, cleaning off my bloody army knife and putting it back in the holder on my leg.

Joey sighed and turned to face me, "Well we're here. But we gotta be in and out quick, because if anyone sees that truck and the dead bodies, we're all gonna be hung."

I started towards the harbor, "What the hell are we waiting for then?"

CHAPTER THREE

The building the signal was coming from was rundown, there was no doubt about that. Before we went in, we all checked to make sure our weapons wouldn't jam or anything. When all was clear, we silently went in. But as soon as we went to open the door, Joey quickly raised his hand and told us to back away.

"The front door is rigged to explode." he told us.

"Can you defuse it?" Josh asked him.

He shook his head and backed up, "We gotta go in through the back."

"We don't have much time, come on." I sighed and ran towards the back of the building.

I kept look out for any other traps that might have been hidden. Whoever was in there, they sure as hell didn't want any outsiders getting in. I noticed a small wire that was tied to each end of the staircase that was in front of me. I quickly stopped and held out my hand, making the others stop behind me.

"What is it?" Joey asked, coming up behind me.

"Trip wire." I said, following the wire with my eyes.

It lead to something inside that I couldn't see. Most likely an explosive.

"Don't touch it, go around it." Joey ordered.

I rolled my eyes and stepped over it, "Yeah like I'm gonna go around it when it covers the entrance."

"Shut up and go." he spit.

I shot him a look and he brushed it off. The others stepped over the wire after I did. I made sure the area was clear and trap free before I continued through the building. Stopping at a corner I quickly looked beyond a wall then back at Joey and the others and held my hand up, letting them know it was clear to continue.

We went up the staircase silently, trying to look and listen for anything that would tell us if someone was in here. Joey was first to make it up the steps, he ordered us to stop and get ready; there was a door we had to breach.

Each of us got on both sides of the door. Joey held up his hand, holding three fingers up and then counted down to one. And on one he backed up and kicked the door open, making it hit the wall and swing back in Sam's face. Sam pushed it out of his way as he followed Joey into the room.

I went in behind them with the others right beside me. We split up and took both sides of the room. The room was huge. It was basically like a hotel room, a bathroom and kitchen and all.

Before Josh and I were about to go into a room on the left, someone yelled and guns cocked.

"Hold it!" Joey yelled.

Josh and I turned and saw him pointing his gun into the dark kitchen. Sam and the others were behind him, all aiming their weapons at the unknown person in the kitchen.

"Come out here slowly or I will kill you!" Joey threatened.

"Easy brother!" a deep voice called from the kitchen, "I mean you no harm, Joey. You should know that."

Joey lowered his pistol and looked to the side at us, "Put down your weapons guys, he's a friend."

I knit my eyes and hesitated, but gave in and put down my pistol as everyone else did. A man came out of the kitchen with a concerned look on his face. He parted his long shaggy hair away from his face and scratched his chin which, obviously needed a good trimming. That, or, he was growing a poor excuse of a beard.

"Felix, what a time to show your face." Joey sighs.

The guy crossed his arms over his chest and looked down.

"I'm sorry man, it's just been hell, with all this shit that happened. With Sean..." he trailed off.

Joey quickly nodded and gazed to the lower right, "Yeah, I know."

"Glad to see you're alive though." he continued.

"With what Ryan and Kyle did to this city, I'm surprised any of us are alive." Joey told him.

He nodded and looked around the room to each one of us. He looked at Josh and gave a nod, Josh nodded back and he then looked over to Sam.

"I heard what happened." he said, looking back to Joey.

Joey averted eye contact with him when he turned to him. He looked to the side and nodded.

"I have something to show you, Joey." Felix blurted.

Joey looked up at him and knit his eyes. He turned and went into the room to the left of him, waving for us to follow him.

CHAPTER FOUR

The room Felix took us in had a single bed and five computers that were side by side of each other, covering half the wall in front of us. Felix went up to the middle screen and tapped a few keys on the keyboard. All of the computer screens lit up and showed different pictures.

Felix turned to us, "I found out something interesting things."

"You were the one that was snooping in Ryan and Kyle's files?" Joey asked him, "Why?"

"I needed some deep information, I also tapped their emails and all that. I have a guy on the inside who's been helping me." he informed then turned back to the screens, "But I found something out that you might wanna check out..."

He bent down and typed on the keyboard then stood straight and backed up when a video came across all of the computer screens.

"What is--"

"Just watch..." Felix interrupted Joey.

"Bring him in." Ryan's voice said from the video.

Two men came into view as they had someone in their grip, dragging the unknown person to a chair that was in the middle of the room they were all in.

"Tie him up good," Ryan ordered the two men.

They both tied up the man to the chair. The man had something over his head so his face wasn't shown. I could tell the man was hurt, he had blood spots on his gray tank top and pants. Ryan's hand was seen as he waved for the two guys to take off the cover from the guy's head.

"Felix..." Joey's voice sounded broken, it was like he knew who it was.

Felix looked down and put his hand to his face, rubbing his mouth as he fidgeted in his place. I could tell he knew how Joey was feeling.

In the video, the guy on the left snatched the cover from the man's head. And in that instant, I understood why this video made them act the way they did as they watched it.

I backed up, "Is that--?"

And it was. The man who was in the video being bloody and tied up was Cole. Joey's boss from his old team, who we all had thought was dead. Joey backed up and his hand went to his mouth as he stared at the video.

In the video Cole lifted his head up, revealing his bloody and beaten face.

"Where's my crew?" Cole's voice cracked in pain.

"Don't worry about them, Cole. After we're finished with you, you won't even remember their names." Ryan spoke.

"Why are you doing this to me? Why can't you just kill me and be over with it?" Cole pleaded out.

Joey put his head down, I looked over to him to see him bite the inside of his check as a tear rolled down his face.

"Okay that's enough!" Josh got in front of Felix, "We get it, turn it off."

Felix sighed and turned back to the laptop, pressing a key on the keyboard.

"What I was trying to point out is that, I think Cole might still be alive." Felix said.

Joey shakily sighed and turned to Sam, I could tell he was holding back tears.

"Sam, didn't you say you saw him?" Joey asked.

Sam nodded and stepped up, "Yeah, but I said I thought it was him. Cole wouldn't have just watched and let Ryan do that to us."

"He would if Ryan broke him." Felix said.

Josh lifted his hand, "What does that mean? Broke him?"

Felix looked at Joey, who was looking off to the right. Josh stood there with his arms out, looking around at each of us for an answer to his question. The room was silent. We all knew what it meant, I knew that; but none of us wanted to say it in front of Joey. I also knew that.

"Oh..." Josh trailed off, understanding the heartbreaking answer to his question.

I sighed and looked at Joey, "Hey we should really get back before they find us."

He nodded and looked up at me, "I know. Just give me a few, I need to think." he lets out a sigh and walks into the other room.

Josh looked at Felix then started after Joey. I went up to him before he could go into the room and faced him.

"Can I talk to him?" I asked, looking him in the eyes.

"I really think I should--"

"Please?" I butted in.

He sighed then nodded, "Okay."

I half smiled then backed up and went into the room with Joey. As I entered he was pacing back and forth by a window, when I came up to him he bent down and ran his hands through his hair.

I walked up to him as I scratched my head.

"Before I met Gordon and the others, I uh, I was horrible kid, had a really bad past, done things that I struggle to forget every day. I was in with these horrible guys, who basically forced me to do things... one day, they forcefully pulled me out of school, took me to this apartment and--and did things. There was this guy there, who had witnessed everything they had done and he just snaps and shoots them. And I, at the time, didn't know he had just saved my life, I grab a pistol from the pocket of one of the guys he had just killed, and I shoot him; repeatedly. You know just getting my anger out at the man who had literally just saved my life." I laugh and choke back tears from the painful memory.

"Now I know I that probably doesn't relate to what you're going through but--"

"Then why'd you just say it?" he snaps, cutting me off.

I knit my eyes, "What?"

He stands up and shoots me a look, "If you're trying to tell me that everyone has had a rough life and people have it worse, save me the speech. You have no idea what's going on in my head."

"I'm not saying anything like that Joey, I was just--"

"Yeah, I know, you were telling me the story about how you were raped as a kid. Please just do yourself a favor and share it with someone else." he spit.

I raised my hands and took a step back, "Sorry for trying to sympathize with you. I'll just let you be miserable by yourself."

"I didn't ask you too come over and talk to me, Wade. I don't need you to give me advice."

I nodded and rolled my eyes, "Okay, whatever. My bad."

"Okay." he huffed and turned back around towards the window.

Shaking my head, I started to turn around but stopped and faced him once more.

"Look Joey--" a loud pop ripped through the air, the window in front of us shattered to pieces as a sharp raging pain shot throughout my left shoulder blade.

I clutched my shoulder blade and collapsed to the ground then scooted away from the window as Joey did the same. I got up against the wall next to the window as Joey took out his pistol. Blood seethed through my fingers as I cringed in pain. A round of bullets came through the window, shattering more pieces of glass onto the floor.

"You okay?" Joey asked me.

I looked to him next to me and nodded painfully. Josh and the others came in from the other room with their weapons drawled. Joey signaled to them that the gunfire was coming from outside. Sam and Felix went to the windows next to Joey and I, peeking out to see who was firing at us.

I lifted my bloody fingers from my wounded shoulder to see if I could see just how bad it was. Bullets shattered the window even more and I ducked closer to the ground, putting my hand back over my bleeding wound.

Sam got down next to me, "You okay?"

"I'll live." I told him.

He nodded and looked over my shoulder to Joey who was talking to Felix.

"Triton agents all over the place man." he informed.

Joey looked at him, "Shit."

"How did they know where we were?" Felix asked.

"Maybe because we hitched a ride on one of their cars?" I said, adjusting myself on the wall.

"There's a back, we can get out there." Felix said, as bullets came through the other two windows.

"Let's go." Joey quickly got up and darted to the front door with Felix right behind him.

I looked at Sam who also got up and followed the others out of the front door. I took a deep breath and quickly got up from the ground and painfully followed behind them. We went down the stairs, my shoulder made it hard to go fast, each time I moved it a pain shot throughout my chest and arm. Making it difficult to run down so many flights of stairs.

"Felix, you do realize you're taking us to the front door, right?" Joey said.

"Yep, just don't go out the front door and we'll be fine." he told him.

We came across the last two sets of stairs, the pain in my shoulder was more severe than it had been before. I pressed on, but at a slower pace than the rest.

As the others passed the front door and continued to the bottom floor, Sam stopped and faced me.

"Can you make it?" he had a concerned look on his face.

I nodded, my hair was wet from sweat and blood slowly turned my shirt red. I leaned on the wall and took a couple deep breaths.

"I'm hurting pretty bad, man." I felt out of breath.

He nodded and took a step towards me, "I'll stay with you till you're ready to run."

"No, please." I coughed, "Go with the others, I'm coming."

He studied me then shook his head, "I'm not leaving you, Wade."

I got up from against the wall and nodded passed him, "Go, I'll be right behind you."

I took a step forward and he then nodded and started towards the others. He passed the front door quickly and continued down the hall, a door to the back was open from where the others had escaped.

I went down the last set of stairs and approached the front door. When I was about to pass it, I heard a quick low voice, then the door was kicked in. I froze as agents piled in right in front of me.

Holding my side, I quickly started back up the stairs. Back towards the room. My heart raced as I was chased up the steps. A hand grabbed the back of my shirt and I was slammed against the wall. My shoulder exploded with pain and I yelled out as an agent held their gun in my face and held me by my neck.

"Check the room!" the agent yelled to four other masked agents as they ran passed us and into the room.

"Caught a live one." an agent came up to my right.

"He won't be alive much longer." another laughed and touched my face with the tip of his gun.

CHAPTER FIVE

The agents kept me in the building. Taped me to a chair while they all looked around for anything that might have been useful to find on the others. I watched as they walked passed me, going into each room and trying to go through the computers Felix had set up. Seemed to me that they had trouble.

After a bit of trying to hack into it one of the agents surged towards me with a gun.

"What's the password to the computer?" he screamed at me and put the tip of his pistol on my head.

"What makes you think I'd know?" I spit.

With his other hand he grabbed my hair and lifted my head back.

"Because you were here," he spit, "You're gonna tell me the password, or I'm gonna hit it out of you."

He released my hair and backed up.

"Hit away jackass, I'm telling you now I don't know the damn password." I told him.

He nodded and looked to an agent that was in the room with the computers. The agent turned back to the computer and began typing.

"I believe that you don't know the password, but I do know for a fact that you know where the others who were with you are. Joey Walker, you know him?" the agent turned back to me and walked in front of me.

I shook my head, "No clue."

He handed his gun to the agent to his right then faced me once more.

"Where are they?" he balled his fist up.

I looked up at him and shot him a cruel look. He pulled his fist back and hit me in the face. My cheek bone ached but I managed to look up at him as looked down to me.

"Where?" he spit.

I licked my lips as the taste of metal filled my mouth. Shaking my head, I laughed and looked down.

"You think you're gonna get the answer by hitting it out of me?" I asked, "C'mon, you can do better."

He shot me a look then nodded, "No, no, you're right, boy." he took a step closer to me and got in my face. "You're gonna tell me where they are."

"You keep thinking that," I managed a laugh.

He smiled and cocked his head to the side then quickly put his hand on my left shoulder, pressing his thumb into my bullet wound. My shoulder exploded in pain, I clenched my fists and cringed as I yelled in pain.

"Tell me where they are!" the agent hissed as he kept hold of my shoulder.

I tried to get loose but the pain in my shoulder made it difficult to move. I cried out as his thumb dug deeper into the raw part of my shoulder.

He quickly backed up and I was able to take a breath, but my shoulder still throbbed with a burning sensation. Someone next to him handed him a cloth and he wiped the blood off of his hands as he gave a smile and laugh. I put my head down and took a couple deep breaths, my entire upper body was in severe pain and I felt numb.

My shirt was covered in blood, I looked down to the ground and bit my lip. The pain started to make me agitated and I felt the need to hurt someone.

I closed my eyes and yelled as I looked up to the agents.

"I will kill you all!" I screamed, straining in the chair.

They laughed and the one agent came up to me and grabbed my neck, forcing my head up.

"I'd really like to see you try." he released his hand and backed away, "You know, you and the others aren't as good as you think you guys are."

"What do you mean?" I asked, lowering my head.

"Oh I dunno, maybe it's because they left you behind when you got shot?" he turned and faced me, "You guys try so hard to be the good guys, but lookie here," he pointed to my shoulder, "They're the reason you got shot and caught by us, am I right?"

I gave him a look and he backed up, "Ah, but who am I kidding? Trust me, you're better off without them anyway. I wouldn't trust anyone who would let me get caught and hung. Or, better yet, tortured and beaten half to death."

He looked to the agents to the side of him and nodded to me, "Untie him and bring him to the trucks."

Two of the agents came up to me with a blade and cut the tape around my wrists and ankles and yanked me up out of the chair. Struggling in their grip, they drug me towards the front door. Before we could go down the stairs one of the agents took out his pistol and aimed it at my face.

"You try anything I will put a bullet--" his words were cut off by the sound of glass shattering and a gun shot.

The pistol dropped to the ground and seconds later the other agent that had a hold of me dropped to the ground after another popping sound of a gun.

"Hey!" agents from inside the room saw what happened and began to charge towards me but before they could get passed the doorway, they were laid out by more rounds of fire that came from the window across the staircase I was standing in front of.

I bent down and picked up the two pistols that the agents had and snatched a mask from one then quickly raced down the stairs. I pulled the mask over my bloody face and held my bloody wound with my right hand, trying to cover it up as I went down the stairs.

As more rounds sounded from upstairs, agents piled in from the front door as I came to the first floor. They froze when they saw me, I hesitated shooting them.

"Gun fire on the top floor!" I tried to sound as convincing as possible, "They've killed them, they're dead!"

I slowly lifted my hand to reveal my bloody hand and blood soaked shirt. The agents piled passed me with weapons in their hands. I stood there and watched them run up the steps, then ran to the back when they were out of sight.

I let out a sigh of pain and relief when I opened the door Joey and the others went out and saw Sam and Josh running up to me. I ripped the mask off my face and gave a little smile.

"Thought you guys were gonna leave me."

"Now what would make you think that?" Sam asked cringing as he looked at my face, "You alright, man?"

I nodded, "Yeah."

Josh put his finger on his right ear, "Joey, we got him. Time to get the hell out of here."

--------

CHAPTER SIX

"He lost a lot of blood." Sam and Joey helped me into James' underground safe house.

They helped me down the latter as I took the severe pain in my shoulder from the gun shot. Alan and Kevin ran over to us as we stepped off the latter. As I took a step off of it, I lost my balance and blacked out for a second.

Hands grabbed me from the side and kept me upright. I regained my balance and cringed as Alan put my arm around his shoulders and walked me into the other room.

"What happened?" Jake cleared a couch as we came towards him.

"Triton Agents got to him." Joey sighed, running his hand through his hair.

I cringed at the pain as Alan carefully sat me down on the couch. I ran my hand through my hair as I looked to the ground. Alan took a pair of scissors and cut the sleeve off my shirt so he could look closer at my bullet wound.

Jake handed Alan a first aid kit as he bent down next to him.

"They messed you up pretty good." Jake observed my face that was cut and bruised from the punches.

"He was basically left there." Sam huffed and turned to Joey who was walking into the other room.

"It's okay, we're not his crew so he doesn't care about us like he did them." I chuckled, tilting my head slightly to try to crack my neck.

Joey stopped and faced me, "What does that mean?"

"Oh I dunno, maybe I feel like you and the others just left me when I had gotten shot? That you weren't gonna come back for me?"

"We came back didn't we?" he snapped.

I rolled my eyes and looked away.

"Stop being a baby about it. We need to get back on track," he turned back around.

"Being a baby about it?" I pushed Alan away and stood up, "Since when does being scared of getting tortured make me a baby?"

"Oh, they just smacked you around a bit, Wade. We got to you before they could kill you, stop being so pathetic." he spit as he walked out of the room.

I clenched my fists as my blood boiled. I felt the need to hit something, but I just swallowed and sat back down to allow Alan to stitch up my wounded shoulder.

"Don't mind him," Alan huffed, "He's always been like that."

I rolled my eyes then looked to the side as Alan began stitching up my wound.

"It looks bad, even though it was just a basic graze. A lot of blood." Alan knit his eyes.

"An agent was using it for a torture technique." I cracked my neck.

He paused and gave me a look before continuing on my wound. Sam sat down next to me and put his hands on his head, running them through his hair.

I turned my head to him, "You alright?"

"Yeah--yeah, I'm good. It's just that this time last year I was kissing my kid and wife goodnight." he let out a sad laugh, "It's crazy how things change so quickly."

I put my right hand on his shoulder, "I know man, I would say I know how you feel, but honestly I don't. You're strong, bro. Hang in there."

I cringed and looked to the left where Alan was stitching up my shoulder.

"Easy man, it's already sore enough." I huffed.

Alan yanked the thread and snipped it down to my stitched wound. He then covered it up with a bandage, wrapping my arm up. When he was done he gathered up all his stuff and stood up.

"Thanks man," I sighed, lowering my still painful arm, "Appreciate it."

He turned to me, "I would say anytime but I honestly don't wanna see you get shot again."

I nodded and huffed, "Same here."

As he walked away, I looked over to Joey, who was talking with Josh and Jake. I glanced at Sam as he and Marshall and Bobby spoke. Sighing, I put my head down and rubbed my head.

I hate to admit it, but I felt bad for them. All of them. They lost so much. They didn't deserve this. No one does.

I looked to the side, considering something in my mind. We've all been figuring out ways to kill Kyle and Ryan to save the city. But, none have ever came out successful.

"You okay?" Sam asked, coming up to sit next to me.

I nodded and looked at him, "What happened to that Felix dude?"

"I dunno, he said he had to figure what he started and said he'd be in contact." he informed.

I nodded and looked back to Joey then at the ground once more.

"Hey, uh, thanks for coming back for me." I sighed, "Even though you were basically the only one who seemed to care."

He was quiet. I looked up to Joey once more then slightly to the side.

"James ever come back?" I asked.

He nodded, "Yeah, he brought some things and then left again. Weapons and all that."

I looked up, "Where?"

"In the front room, why?"

Taking a breath, I stood up straight, "I wanna see what he got. Maybe I, uh, maybe I can come up with a plan."

he nodded and I took that as a cue to walk off. I went into the front room, right by the front door. There were boxes with big red letters that seemed to be in a different language, Russian, I assumed. I searched through the boxes to see if there was anything worth interest. The only thing that caught my eye were blocks of beige that read the word: C4.

I stopped, staring at the explosives. Thinking up a plan that would most-likely get me killed, but hopefully save this town, and the others.

A part of me was hesitant, but another urged for me to grab it and leave. I didn't know which one to go with, but, I finally made up my mind.

I reached for two blocks of C4 and quickly shoved them under my shirt, then grabbed my jacket that was laying on a chair next to the boxes. As I turned to leave, a hand grabbed my arm and shoved me to the wall, next to the boxes.

"What're you doin'?" James' Russian voice asked quietly.

I looked him in the eye and tried to pull away but his grip was too tight around my arm. I looked to the side and he got closer in my face.

"Don't." he spit.

"You don't even know--"

"Yes, I do." he interrupted, "Don't be stupid. Its suicide."

I knit my eyes as he looked at me, "I know because I've thought to do it, the same thing, friend. Killing yourself won't save the city. What if you don't kill him?"

"But what if I do?" I blurted.

He looked to the side, where the others were in the room next to us talking. He then sighed and put his head down. To my surprise, he backed up off of me and looked me in the eyes.

"You do what you want, but let me tell you this. What good will it do if you die like that? What are you trying to prove? You'll die in pieces, so what?"

"I just--" I sighed and bent down on my knees, running my hand through my hair, "I feel like that is the only way to stop them."

"You will die--"

"I'd rather kill myself then watch this city slowly burn." I raised my voice, "We can't do this by ourselves. They have an army, and what do we have? A couple of washed up hit men, an ex-cop, an ex-convict and someone who was just in a place at the wrong time. Plus those two guys who any of us barely even know," I pointed to Bobby and Marshall.

I noticed everyone was looking at us. Joey stepped up towards us with his arms crossed.

"What's going on?" he asked.

I looked to James, who was still looking at me.

"Wade's trying to kill himself." James blurted.

I rolled my eyes as Joey walked towards us. I looked down, feeling a bit awkward as I felt everyone looking at me. The explosives in my hand slowly felt heavy. I looked up at Joey, who was now closer to me, thinking he was about to say a smart remark.

He looked at James and then tilted his head to the side, "Give us a minute."

James backed away as he looked at me. He then started back over to the others. Joey looked at my hand which was in my jacket holding the C4.

I rolled my eyes and took the C4 out of my jacket and put it back with the others.

Joey gave me a concerned look, "You wanted to go out like that?"

"Don't act like you care all of a sudden." I crossed my arms over my chest, "I had a reason for doin' what I was about to do."

He nodded then sighed and turned back to the others.

"Wade is right," he started, "We can't do it with just us. They do have an army, we're just a couple of broken soldiers."

I took a step forward and crossed my arm over my chest. I looked at Joey as he glanced over at me and looked around him to the others.

"I'm not saying we should kill ourselves, but we sure as hell need help." he sighed, "Though I wish I knew people."

I saw Bobby's head pop up but he stopped himself from saying what was on his mind.

"Do you have an idea?" James gave Bobby a look.

Bobby nodded and looked at Joey, "The Black Dragons."

"The what?" Alan asked.

Bobby repeated his words in a different tone as he gave Joey an innocent look. "Think about it."

"Isn't that the biker gang that almost killed you at the police station?" Josh asked Joey, who nodded as he gazed at the ground.

"They also tried to kill Sean, if I am correct." a familiar voice said behind me.

I turned as Dean came up behind me. He had a look of concern on is face as he walked passed me.

"James told me the story." he finished his words.

Joey looked up at him, "Where have you been?"

"I had business to take care of." he stated.

Joey nodded and lifted his head up as he sighed heavily, noticeably trying to relieve whatever that was on his mind. Joey shot me one last look before turning around and walking in the other room. Dean walked up to James and whispered something in his ear.

James pulled his head back and nodded, turning and leading him into another room. I sighed and rolled my eyes. I felt agitated, I just wanted this all to end. Here and now. I was never known for my patience.

I twirled around and started towards the front door, not planning on leaving, just wanted to be alone. I turned the corner and stopped, facing the ladder that led up to James' back yard.

This has to be the most difficult thing that has happened to me. I was never trained to kill people for a living like everyone else. I didn't know how to deal with all this, I was a convict, a stupid thief that robbed banks and got caught because I didn't make the right turn. The right choice.

Now all my friends are dead and I feel stuck and forced to fight with these guys, half of them I didn't even like. I took a breath and rubbed my eyes until I saw stars.

I heard the top latch open from the right of me. I figured someone was about to come in, but then realized we were all already here. When something dropped from the top of the latter on to the floor, I knew something was wrong. As the thing rolled towards me, I saw what it was. My eyes got wide and I ran and dove forward, trying to get as far away as I could from the grenade. It went off and I was thrown forward, just passing the box of ammo and weapons.

"Get to cover!" I knew after that grenade, something worse was likely to come. I got up, my ears still ringing, and grabbed as many pistols as I could pick up in such short time from the now busted crate near the boxes of ammo.

"Ambush!" Sam yelled.

Seconds after I threw him a pistol, shots were being fired towards us from the thick cloud of dust and flames. I grabbed Marshall who was on the ground and pulled him into the back room with me. As I let shots off, Joey and James came running up to us, weapons in their hands.

"What happened?" James asked over the sound of gunfire.

"They must of found us." I replied, loudly.

Jake pushed me out of the way to get a look in the other room. James had a concerned look on his face as he quickly searched around the room. Dean came up behind him, the silenced pistol in his grip aimed upwards.

"We need to get out of here." he stated the obvious.

Sam and Bobby let shots off. The cloud of dust that blocked the view of the entrance was getting thicker and thicker by the second. It was as if they had thrown a smoke grenade. Jake turned to us and shot James a look.

"You did make an emergency exit when you made this thing, didn't you, Russian boy?" he asked.

James knit his eyes, as if confused to why he had just called him a Russian boy.

Jake rolled his eyes, "I take that as a no..."

"Guys, they have explosives so we better make a decision and fast." I huffed, clenching my pistol.

Joey peeked around the corner then looked at each of us, "We're gonna need some C4."

CHAPTER SEVEN

Joey's plan was to blow a hole in the roof and pray to god the entire thing didn't collapse on our heads. It wasn't a brilliant plan, but it was something. He ordered us to shoot at the agents, but actually aim at the C4 that were behind them. Hopefully to make a big enough explosion to blow the roof and not so big that is kills us all. Yes, a brilliant plan.

So now it was the test of whom had the better aim to shoot the agents who were shooting at us and hit the C4. Truthfully, I didn't even pay attention to the agents, I missed on purpose. Bullets screamed passed my head, but I kept shooting at the crates.

"Joey!" the voice sent chills down my spine. And I knew it did the same to everyone else, "Joey! Let's stop with the guns and talk this out like adults."

The gunfire ceased and everything got silent. I tried to stop myself, but I couldn't help but look at Joey, the expression on his face, the look of horror as he heard the heartbreaking voice of his friend and boss. His voice was scratchy, but it was unmistakably his.

Joey's gun was aimed to the ground, his grip around it was so tight that his knuckles slowly turned white. I peeked past Sam and looked at Cole, who's face was still all scarred up as he had a rifle in his grip. He stood in front of the other agents, the look on his face seemed as if he knew we wouldn't shoot him. And somehow I knew that was true.

Joey squeezed his eyes shut and took a breath. After a couple seconds of silence he opened them and looked up, peeking out from behind the wall we shielded ourselves behind.

"Don't shoot, Cole. I'm not armed. You wanted to talk, so here I am." he lowered his pistol, raising his other hand in surrender.

Joey and Cole stared at one another, Joey's face said it all, the pain in his eyes seemed almost too real. I could understand why, his boss and lifetime best friend who he had thought had died, was standing a couple feet in front of him, all cut up and bruised, standing with the enemy that had killed him.

I could only imagine what was going through Joey's mind at the time.

"What did they do to you, man?" Joey's voice sounded weak, he looked as if he was about to break down in tears; I was surprised he didn't.

Cole's jaw tensed, I noticed he looked slightly to the side then quickly back to Joey and shifted his balance.

"Lay your weapons down and come with us, don't make this more difficult than it has to be." After Cole said those words he looked over and we met eyes.

Cole looked at Joey, "Joey, lay your weapons down. You're going back to prison."

Joey knit his eyes, "What are you talking about? Cole, Kyle and Ryan will hang us. Don't you understand that? Don't you remember us? Everything we have been through?"

"Joey--"

"No! We are not going with you, I don't care if we have to shoot our way out from this bunker. There is no way I am letting my friends down. Not like I let you down, boss... We will fight to the death if that's what it takes."

Cole looked down and let out a sigh. Looking back up to Joey, he looked behind him to Sam and gave a straight face.

"You're breaking my heart, Joey."

"I'm breaking your heart?" Joey snapped and took a step forward, "Cole, it's us, your friends; your family."

I knit my eyes and looked over to Sam, who had his eyes sliding across the ground by his feet. He suddenly stopped and looked up and around to see if anyone was looking at him, I caught his eyes and when I looked at him, his eyes got wide and within a second he jumped up and lunged for Joey.

"Get back!"

Sam took a step and barely touched Joey as the entire roof above us came down when a loud explosion was heard. That's when everything took a turn for the worse.

Next thing I knew I was on the ground, covering my ears with my hands as dirt and large rocks fell around me, some close to hitting me in the head. My ears rang as I looked around, still trying to figure out what the hell just happened. heard yelling from beyond the dust, but didn't comprehend what it said.

The pain in my shoulder came back as I laid basically paralyzed by shock and pain as the entire room flooded with dust. I let loose of my ears and clutched my throbbing shoulder. The blast had thrown me backwards, and I apparently was thrown against a wall, which I could tell as my entire back stung.

A pair of black shoes ran up in front of me, and I was yanked up by a blurry face, and it took me a second to notice who it was. Cole had a smug look on his face as he yanked me up off of the ground, I felt more hands grab a hold of me. Cole started yelling as I was being dragged backwards.

The ringing in my ears started to ease up to the point I could hear what was being said around me.

"Joey!" Cole screamed at the top of his lungs.

I looked around me to see who had me, and when I saw the Triton mask, I started to panic. The pain in my shoulder exploded but I didn't care, my first thought was I was going to be tortured if I went with them. And that wasn't about to happen.

I struggled in their grip. Kicking and thrusting trying to get loose, but more hands grabbed a hold of me and held me still.

Cole walked backwards towards me, still facing the dense cloud of dust that was just now slowly starting to clear.

"Joey, don't make this more difficult than it has to be. You have to the count of three to step out or-"

"Josh!" Joey's bloodcurdling scream made everybody freeze.

The room cleared just enough to see Joey who was laying on the ground by a body on the ground who was unmistakably Josh covered in blood. Boulders from the concrete above us had came down on top of him.

"I'm going to kill you..." Joey's voice was quiet but loud enough to hear what was said.

"I am going to kill you all!" he raised his voice and quickly stood up

Before Joey could aim his pistol at them, Cole instantly snatched me from the hands of the agents and put his gun to my head.

"You even think about doing that, and I will blow his face off." Cole's grip around my neck made it hard to move.

Joey slowed down but took a couple steps towards us. Noticing, Cole used his hand that was choking me to grab a hold of my wounded shoulder. My legs gave out and I cried out in pain, on the verge of tears. The pain shot through my entire body.

"Okay." Joey backed up with both hands up but Cole refused to let go and I was left shedding tears as I tried not to move.

"Tell him to come help you." Cole said, pressing his thumb into my already tender wound.

Pain made my shoulder numb as the force Cole was using got increasingly worse.

"Cole!" Joey screamed.

"Tell him to come and save you!" Cole threw me behind him and as I hit the ground, agents quickly snatched me up and forced me on my feet.

Cole faced Joey, "You wanna kill me, Joey? Just like you did before? Come on then, kill me. Kill me or I will make Wade wish he was dead. Wish I would make the pain stop," he pointed to his head, "In here included."

My head felt heavy as I tried to look up to Joey who met eyes with me. "So what's it going to be? You know what? light'em up. Let's get outta here. If you're still living after this, Joseph, come and find me, and if Wade is still alive and on your side by the time you find me, you know what to do." Cole winked and turned away, walking towards the exit.

The two hands that had me started to drag me backwards. With what was left of my strength, I fought to get loose, I yelled for Joey, but after I yelled his name, the agents shot up the place as they left the cellar one by one. the agents forced me up the latter, pulling my hair and pushing me up as I painfully went up it.

Once on land, the sun burnt my eyes. Cole came close to me, the scars on his face stretched as he began smiling, "Welcome to hell, Wade."

And in that moment I knew, the old Cole that we all knew was really gone. And the scary part was the fact that he wasn't going to stop all this. He was the cause of it. And that scared me more than anything.

--------

CHAPTER EIGHT

The time it took to get to wherever we were going seemed like forever, the pain in my shoulder made my entire body shiver. The blood dried up and it hurt to even move, so I just sat with my head down, trying my hardest not to move. But the bumpy road killed me.

By the time we got to our destination, I was already paralyzed. Cole forced me on my feet as two agents dragged me out of the car.

"Take him inside, make sure they know that he is mine. That means no one touches him unless I give the say." Cole's voice seemed the same, yet at the same time, very different.

My entire body stung with pain, the wound on my shoulder seemed to get worse by the minute. The agents dragged me into a room that seemed so far away. I was so out of it, all I wanted to do was crawl in a ball and hoped the pain would ease. But it didn't, and with every step and breath I took, the pain got more severe. And the fact that they were dragging me into a room made it a lot worse.

They tied me down to a metal chair, using duct tape as the rope, which was more difficult to even try to escape from. They seemed to have put pounds of tape around my ankles and wrists, the tape was on so tight that my hands soon started to turn blue.

"Where is Cole?" I managed to put my head up just enough to catch a glimpse of the agent that was walking in front of me.

"He'll be in here soon, don't you worry," The agent snickered then turned to the agent who was standing to our right with a sneer on his face and huffed, "Tell them to get the room setup. We gotta 'nother puppy to train."

My head fell to my chest, the weight of it was too much to lift on my own. My entire body felt like it weighed a ton. I just wanted to turn over and pass out. But the thought of being here made my want to escape keep me awake and aware of my surroundings no matter how bad I felt like dying.

The dark room I was in was soon empty. The tape around my hands and feet pulled my skin each time I tried to move. I froze, put my head down and shook my head, allowing my sweaty hair to fall into my face. I took a deep breath and tried to calm myself, I could feel my heart making my body shake with every heartbeat.

I slowed my breathing and began to look around, trying to use this alone time to my advantage to figure a way out. A door slammed and footsteps scrambled closer seconds later Cole came into view. He stopped in front of me and folded his arms over his chest.

"Cole please don't do this. This isn't you. We were your friends, Joey--"

"I killed his brother!" Cole lunged forward, cutting me off.

He stopped in my face, looking in my eyes. My eyes scanned his scarred face, the look he gave made me very uneasy, he was a totally different person than the day I met him at the bank. But deep in his eyes I saw how much pain he was really holding back.

"I killed Josh, he killed my wife and son. So there isn't a reason for any of us to get along." he shut his eyes and turned away.

"But you didn't kill Josh, the explosion..."

"I rigged it!" he came back in my face, his eyes red and wide as he studied me, "There is no stopping it. I don't know him anymore. He is the cause of everything that has happened to the Crew. He is the reason they are all dead! He murdered my wife and kid."

"Cole..."

"No! Don't act like you know me. None of you know me. But I am going to show you the truth. And in return you are going to tell me the truth." he spit, twirling around and walking off to the darkness.

"There is nothing you can do to me that will make me talk, Cole. I may be weak when it comes to pain, but I sure as hell know when to take it. So, I don't break easily when it comes to pain." I huffed, lowering my head.

I heard him laugh and he soon came into view, holding a power drill and a clear box of what looked to be needles.

"Well, we will just have to see how high your tolerance really is." he gave a smile and forced my taped hand flat on the armrest of the chair.

"What're you doing?" I choked on my saliva as I watched Cole lift the drill, I noticed on the tip of the drill, where a nail was supposed to go was a needle taped with the point facing outwards.

Cole switched the drill on the lowest power and I watched in horror as the needle spun with the tip of the drill. He then slowly lowered the drill towards the hand he was forcefully holding down. I tried with all my strength to move my hand away, hell, even just move my fingers, but it was to no avail. My body was so worn out, I couldn't even lift a finger.

My feet were taped to the legs of the chair and I could feel the tape ripping into my skin from the amount of force I was using to get loose. But no matter the amount of force I used, it was no use. I wasn't going anywhere.

"Take it." Those words were the last words that came through my head before they were replaced with the agonising pain that exploded throughout my entire body as the tip of the needle drilled through the tip of my finger, piercing the soft tissue under my fingernail.

I screamed at the top my lungs as my skin crawled with a burning pain that shot throughout my body. Tears formed in my swollen eyes and my jaw clenched. I shut my eyes and pulled my head down as continued to cry out.

Cole pulled back, the bloody drill was still on as he looked at me.

"How is that tolerance of yours holding up?" he laughed.

I lifted my head to speak but every muscle in my body just gave out and my head dropped back down as my mouth filled with saliva. I lifted my head to look at him and lick my lips. The pain had numbed to a point where my entire body just throbbed.

"Thought so."

"Why're you doing this?" I asked drowsily, "I didn't do anything to you."

"Why here we go with the whole, 'I didn't do shit to you.' beg." he huffed and threw the drill down next to him and came into my face, "I am doing this to build up your tolerance, to make you stronger for what's to come."

"What's to come?" I looked at him.

"The truth. You're going to understand why Joey and the others need to die. And when that day comes, you're going to help me kill them." he gave a smirk and backed up, "I am going to kill you over and over, and each time you come back, you will be reborn again and eventually see the light, which will, of course, make a new man out of you."

I put my head back down and laughed, what Cole was saying sounded insane. He was messed up in the head, big time.

He came in my face, lifting my head up forcing me to look at him, "Do you see my face? These scars? They are the process you will be going through until you see the truth. That is the only way, that is what made me see the truth of what Joey really is, a murderer."

He let go of my face and backed away. Raging, I lifted my head back up, ignoring the flaring pain that numbed my entire body.

"They beat the shit out of you, Cole. They tortured you, over and over. They messed with your mind or something because the Cole that we all know would never do this to his friends. He would never work with and agree with the people who have killed his friends and family!" I spit, "They tortured you, Cole! The same shit you are doing to me."

"No!" he twirled around and came towards me, "They made me see the truth! They showed me everything that Joey had been hiding from me for years. They showed me who really killed my family, Joey did!"

He pulled his hand back and struck me in the face, "Joey is the reason for all of this! He is the reason you are here because he did nothing to help you, and you know why? Because he doesn't give two craps about you or anyone that is following him because he has brainwashed you to believe that he is doing everything for the better."

"You're wrong..." I managed.

"Am I? Am I really, Wade?" he came in my face, "He did nothing to save you. Just like he let me die back at that hospital, he let me, Derek and Ken die back there! He just left us. He did nothing!" he screamed, staring at me with bloodshot eyes.

He licked his lips and pulled away. I squeezed my eyes shut and lowered my head once again. Metallic sounds were heard as Cole fiddled with his knifes, trying to find the best one to use. Footsteps fumbled until an agent came up to him.

"Sir, we have a problem." His voice was stern but it was obvious he was terrified.

Cole froze and dropped the tool he had in his hand and the two of them walked off together. The room got quiet and I popped my head up, quickly surveying the room to make sure there wasn't anyone here.

I hesitated moving, I knew that once I did, the horrific pain would come back. And that was the last thing I needed now. But the need of escape washed over me and I began thrusting within my restraints, using every last bit of my willpower to stretch out the tape that was holding me in place. I bent over and started to bite the edge of the tape, grabbing a bit of it each time and having barely any luck ripping it.

I sat up unsuccessfully and my eyes focused on the knife's that were about two feet in front of me. I whispered a small prayer and with a thrust of my body, I began to scoot the chair towards them. But after a couple of seconds of struggling, I stopped just to find out I haven't moved an inch.

I groaned as my muscles strained with the undying need to escape. Clenching my jaw, my head pulled back and I let out a frustrated yell.

Footsteps raced back into the room I was in and within seconds Cole was in my face, staring into my eyes with a horrific look on his face.

"They're coming for you." he spit.

A wave of relief washed over me and I tried to keep a straight face so he wouldn't notice as he kept his eyes on me. Two agents came up behind him with their blades out.

"Now, I was given orders by Kyle to use you as bait to kill them," The agents came to me and began to cut off the tape around my hands and feet, "See? I told you you'd be the one that helps me kill Joey."

He gave a smile as the agents yanked me out of the chair and onto my feet. My legs just about gave out from underneath me as they forced me to walk. But after a few steps, I got used to the pain.

The agents got out their pistols just as Cole did as they walked with a gun to my head out of the room they had me in. My eyes had adjusted to the dark so when I came out into the sudden light, I could barely see. But they soon adjusted once more and I was able to see where I was.

Agents with weapons ranging from pistols to assault rifles ran passed us as we passed half open and closed doors on either side of us. We turned a corner and I saw a familiar face.

"Kyle! Here he is, where are they?" Cole grabbed me from the agents and put me in a chokehold.

Kyle turned to us, "I'm not sure, the alarms are going off everywhere. Where are they?" he yelled over the rush of agents that were scattering.

Kyle huffed and grabbed the walkie off of his hip and spoke into it, "Joey, Joey if you are listening to this--scratch that, I know you can hear me, " he then grabbed his pistol and aimed it at my head, "Joey, you have ten seconds to surrender yourself or I will put a bullet between Wade's eyes. You understand me?"

"Don't do this." I gulped and adjusted myself in Cole's arms as his grip around my neck tightened.

"One." Kyle cocked the gun and slowly began to count.

I squeezed my eyes shut as Kyle continued to count, each number he said made me cringe for each one was closer to him pulling that trigger. But, somewhere deep down in me, was hoping he would just do it.

"Seven, eight, nine--" he paused a moment before he said that last number.

"Okay Kyle. You win, just don't hurt him." Joey's voice was distorted on the walkie Kyle had in his hand.

Kyle smiled and uncocked his pistol as he lowered it, "I figured you'd do the right thing. Turn yourself in, Joey. Don't make this any harder on Wade than it has been."

Silence over the radio created tension between us as we watched the walkie, waiting for Joey to answer back. Joey's laughed echoed through the walkie as they looked at each other in suspicion.

"Kyle, how many times do we have to go through this before you figure out that I don't play by the rules. Listen, this is how it is going to work, you are going to let my friend go, and in exchange I won't slaughter every single last one of your pathetic followers while you watch and beg for your life. Now, say I won't."

Kyle lowered the walkie and shot Cole a look, who, in return, gave a hand gesture back and Kyle raised the walkie back to his face, "You think you're in charge of who makes the deals around here? I--"

The sound of breaking glass broke the air and three agents that were to our left collapsed onto the ground. Cole and Kyle took a step back as they looked around for where the shots came from.

"Let him go." Joey's voice was stern as it came through the walkie.

Red dots appeared on Kyle and Cole's foreheads and Kyle nodded to Cole, who quickly released his grip around my neck. I stumbled but quickly got my balance and was able to stand.

"Now, Kyle, you're going to give Wade a thirty second head start, or I will blow a hole straight through your damn skull. You hear me?" Kyle gave me a look as Joey continued, "Give the walkie to Wade, and let him go."

Everyone froze as Kyle hesitantly handed me the walkie. As I reached for it he grabbed my hand with his right arm and came in my face, "Don't think you're getting away this easy. You won't get out of this building intact."

He let go and then quickly shot Cole a look as I regained my balance and quickly started off, walking passed agents as I felt everyone's eyes on me. I went down the first set of stairs I saw, my heart racing with every painful step I took.

"Wade, they are listening, I know this, but remember the bank where we first met? That's your way out. We will be waiting, you are smart enough to know how to get out. Be careful." Joey's voice over the walkie went to static and I knew well enough to drop it into a door that was open a floor beneath me. I noticed that I had been unconsciously clenching my fist to ease the pain in my hand.

But the moment I noticed, that was hard to not think of moving them, making myself move my fingers and the pain return. I stopped for a second and forced myself to catch my breath. The feeling of suffocation was making it intensely hard to think of what I needed to do.

I regained my thoughts, taking control of my breathing and looking around. The bank. I remember what had happened at the bank, that was the day we all had met, the day everything got so messed up for my friends and I. The day we met The Crew. We had escaped the bank from a hole in the basement that was built as an escape route. That I remember clearly.

I hurriedly started down the stairs, counting the floors I was passing until I came across the last floor. I stopped and took a deep breath in.

I am actually going to walk out of here alive, I thought to myself excitedly, thanking God silently for another chance to live.

I took a step and almost immediately fell to the force of the building shaking. Smoke filled the top of the staircase and rushed towards me. The smell of fire made me force myself into the door as alarms wailed. I slammed the door behind me and ran into the middle of the mildew soaked room. The pipes around me dripped and creaked. I looked around for something, anything that would point me towards the right direction.

Another explosion shook the building and I was thrown forward against the wall as dust filled the air and before I knew, it everything went black.

CHAPTER NINE

I awoke with a jolt, my hand went to my chest as I tried to calm my breathing. I looked around and began to panic when I didn't recognize where I was. Footsteps approached me and I was greeted with a familiar face.

"Calm down man, you're safe here." Joey had his hands us as he sat down at my feet.

A loud sigh of relief came out of me and Joey put his head down as his eyes surveyed the ground beneath his feet.

"What happened? Why...How did I escape?" I managed to ask.

"You're out, that's all that matters. Are you okay?" he looked at me.

I took a minute to answer, trying figure out if I was. I looked up at him and gave a unsure nod. And he nodded understandingly.

"Where are we? Where is everyone?" I adjusted myself so I was able to stand up. My hand was bandaged up but it still hurt.

"Alan had this place hidden, he never told us why he had this place, but it's a safe place. For now." he informed.

I nodded and rubbed my forehead, which stung as I touched the bandage that covered a wound. Letting out a sigh, Joey stood up and brushed his hair back.

"You took a pretty bad beating, man. I'm just glad we got you out of there before any serious damage was done." he spoke, looking up at me.

"But the thing is, it seems like they let me go too easy. Like, they didn't even try to stop me." I sighed and shook my head.

"Trust me, they tried. We planted a bomb there, and blew it when you were in the basement. Guess we may have blown it too soon because by the time I got to you, you were pretty beat up. Sorry about that."

I shrugged and rubbed my neck, "Thanks for getting me out though, bro."

He waved his hand and started off, "That's what I'm here for."

I cracked my neck and stretched out, putting my head on my knees and letting out a sigh. I still had that burning feeling inside of me. Even though I knew I was out, the anger of being there was still there and eating me on the inside.

"You okay, bro?" James's russian voice made me jump up.

He walked towards me and sat down on the couch, "No, I am far from it. But I am alive and that's all that matters, right?"

He sighed and put his hand on my shoulder, "You are a strong man, Wade. Don't let them destroy that about you."

I nodded and noticed Marshall making his way towards us. He stopped in front of James and I and crossed his arms over his chest.

"What's up buddy?" Marshall half smiled.

James shrugged and stood up, "Not much, what are the guys doing outside?"

"The same thing as when you were out there." he huffed and looked to the side.

He nodded and turned to me, "If you need to talk..."

I nodded and he perked his lips and walked off. Marshall swayed side to side as he bit the side of his mouth.

"You got somethin' on your mind?" I ignorantly asked.

His eyes got wide as he turned to me and swiftly shook his head, "No, not at all."

I nodded and stood up as he came towards me. I froze and shot him a look, "Look, bro, I'm not in the mood, so whatever you're trying to do--"

"What did you tell them?" he interrupted.

I knit my eyes, "What? What are you talking--"

"That's how it goes. You were there for a long time, you had to of cracked and just spilled everything. And the fact that all you came back with was a messed up finger. You had to have told them something."

"I don't know what you are talking 'bout, get out of my way." I took a step.

"It's okay! I told them too," he hissed, "How do you think they found us at James's house?"

I knit my eyes, "You told them we were there?"

He half smiled and cocked his head to the side, "Kind of, yes. They said they would let me go if I did. When they caught me. It's okay, you are the only person who knows. And it will stay that way, as long as you tell me what you told them."

"Get away from me, Marshall." I snapped.

He studied me as he stood his ground. I bit the side of my mouth, trying helplessly to not swing on him. I knew it would cause my hand to begin hurting again. I stepped up to him and got in his face.

"Marshall for your own good, I would back away."

Seconds passed as he eventually started to back away. But as soon as he turned to walk off someone from behind him swung and hit him in the face and he stumbled forward.

"Traitor!" Jake had what looked like a plastic wrap in his hand as he grabbed Marshall by the neck.

"Whoa!" I yelled, but it was too late.

What Jake had in his hand was a zip tie and he had quickly wrapped around Marshalls neck and pulled it. The plastic of the zip tie looked embedded in Marshall's neck. Jake dropped him and he collapsed to the ground, gasping for air.

"Jake? What the hell?" I snapped.

He came towards me and I backed up, tripping over the couch and lying on top of it. Jake came at me, he looked to have a hand full of zip ties. He dropped them on the couch next to me and pulled his fist back and hit me in the face.

"Traitor!" his voice was harsh.

I shook my head as I fought him off of me, "No, you don't understand!"

He hit me once more in the face then quickly grabbed for a zip tie next to us and forced it around my neck. On instinct, I reached up for it, putting two fingers underneath of it as it tightened around my neck.

It was hard to breathe, but with those two fingers stopping it from tightening completely around my neck, it seemed to help.

"Hey!" James's Russian voice bellowed from a room to our left.

He charged to Jake, but Jake intercepted it, throwing him passed him and backing up as he put his hands up. I tried to pry the zip tie apart, or even just loosen it from my neck enough to breathe.

Footsteps fumbled into the room, Joey and Sam came into view and quickly surveyed the room.

My head felt tight and my lungs felt as if they were about to explode, the lack of air slowly made me panic. I dug my fingers into my neck, trying to grab a hold of the plastic, but it ended with no luck.

Sam ran towards me, diving into the couch next to me as he tried to help pull the zip tie apart.

My vision slowly got blurry as my lungs burned. I reached out and grabbed Sam as I squeezed my eyes shut.

"Joey!" Sam bellowed, pulling on the plastic more.

Joey rushed over to us, yanking a switch blade out of his pocket and flicking it open, leaning in close to me. He pushed my neck to the side and quickly dug the tip of the blade in the left side of my neck, slicing it open and swiftly yanking the knife upwards. My neck jerked and a pop was heard as the pressure around my neck released and I gulped for air.

I couldn't stop coughing, and wheezing as I felt the blood flow back into my head. My hand went to the stinging spot on my neck as I leaned forward gasping for air.

Sam put his hand on my shoulder as Joey sprung up from the couch and charged towards Jake.

"What the hell was that for?" he snapped.

Jake turned to him, "I heard them both say they were the ones who snitched and told Ryan and Kyle we would be at that bunker!"

I coughed and looked up at them, "That's not true!"

"Is it?" Jake yelled, "You and Marshall were the ones that told them we would be there."

"No, he did. I didn't say shit!" I stood up, holding my neck as blood seethed through my fingers.

"How do we know that?" he asked, cocking his head to the side.

"You don't. That's why you gotta trust me. Why would I say anything like that to them? They were the ones that ruined our lives. Joey--you gotta believe me. I didn't tell them anything."

Joey turned to me with a look on his face I will never forget, it was of anger and disgust, all at once. He turned around and glanced over to Marshall, who lay still on the ground, his face flushed of life.

"Joey, you know me." I spit.

He nodded and turned back to Jake then instantly swung, hitting him square in the jaw, making him stumble backwards. James grabbed him, putting him in a chokehold. Jake tried to fight his grip, thrashing around until he froze and stared at Joey, who got in his face in a frightening calm manner.

"I don't know who you are, Jake. And honestly, I trust my friends way more than I trust you. And if you ever, ever try to kill one of my friends again, you will be sorry you met me." he spit.

"You don't know me, but I sure as hell wouldn't tell the people who killed your brother or friends our location so they could kill you." he struggled in James's grip, "You--out of everyone--should know you can't trust your friends."

Joey gave James a look then glanced back to Jake, "I am going to allow you to stay here, only because I am not a heartless piece of crap to throw you to the dogs and leave you to die. Let him go, James."

James released his grip and Jake took a step forward, grabbing his throat as he looked around.

"James, do something with Marshall's body, before Bobby sees." Joey turned and faced me.

Multiple footsteps approached us and Joey flinched and put his hand to his head.

"Scratch that," he said, "Jake, you're going to regret doing that."

"What are you guys doing in here?" Kevin's voice was heard.

I looked over to the left and saw the rest of the guys behind him as they all came into the room. Alan was the first one to notice the tension in the room.

"What's going on?" His eyes surveyed the room until they stopped at Marshall's lifeless body. "Oh..."

Bobby pushed passed the others then stopped abruptly when he saw Marshall laying on the ground. He froze and I could tell from the look on his face he nearly lost his breath.

"No..." Bobby ran over to Marshall, pushing passed Jake and James and falling to his knees, "What the hell happened?"

"Bobby, listen..."

"No!" he snapped standing up and facing everyone, "What happened?"

"Jake murdered him." I blurted.

Bobby slowly turned to him, his eyes wide as he paused for a minute before charging him. James grabbed him before he reached Jake. Jake stood where he was, a grim look on his face as he watched Bobby fumble in James's arms.

"Why?" he yelled, "Why did you kill him?"

Jake was quiet as he studied Bobby, he shut his eyes as Bobby screamed at him.

"Why!"

Jake shot me a look from the corner of his eye, "He was the one that told Ryan where were were. He was the one that almost got us killed."

Bobby froze and looked back to his cousin, "No, Marshall wouldn't do that."

"But he did." Jake looked to Bobby, "I heard him telling Wade."

Bobby looked at me, as if wanting to be reassured. I nodded and glanced at Jake, "Yeah he did tell me everything. He was the one that snitched on us."

"But why did he tell you?" Alan took a step towards me, "Why did he just randomly tell you that?"

I shrugged, "Don't know, maybe he thought I had done the same thing when Cole took me."

I felt everyone's eyes on me, but I didn't care. I knew I hadn't done anything wrong. I know I did not say anything to them, and I knew that the way I acted now would make them understand too.

"He thought? Or did he know?" Alan tilted his head.

"I did not tell them shit." I spit.

He nodded but didn't take his eyes off me. Joey sighed frustratingly as he ran his hand through his hair.

"Look," I huffed, "I really could care less if you guys believe me or not. But we need to find a way to kill Kyle and Ryan, because it seems like hiding from them until we come up with a stupid plan never seems to work. You guys blew up the Triton agency, am I right? Now what is next?"

"This." Kevin finally spoke up, holding up a disc.

"What's that?" I knit my eyes.

"You will find out soon enough. We have the Black Dragons helping us as of right now." Joey crossed his arms as he glanced over to James, "Can you do something with Marshall?"

He nodded and walked over and bent down next to Marshall's body, Bobby let out one last sigh then helped James carry his cousin into the next room.

"What's the plan, guys?" I asked, "We do have one, right?"

"Yeah, we do. Dean made a plan that is going to take a lot, but, if it works, then we won't need that CD." James informed.

I nodded, "Good. Well, what is it?"

CHAPTER TEN

Joey handed each of us pistols after we all picked out our primary weapons from the display James had put out. He looked each of us in our eyes as we took the gun from his hands. Not a word was spoken, though we all knew what had to be done. Joey finally got to the last of us, and as he handed Sam his weapon, he gave a slight nod and backed up.

"Guy's, I know everything has been just--" he gave a unsatisfied look, "Overwhelming, to say the least. But this ends tonight. All of it. And we are going to be the ones to end it. No matter what it takes."

He looked through us, licking his lips and nodding as he shut his eyes and lowered his head. He gave a sigh and looked up at us.

"I can't say all of us will make it back alive, but I sure as hell will make sure every single one of us makes it through that door at the end of the night, that is my promise."

Everyone was silent as he looked us through with a stern look on his face, "Let's go."

I let out a sigh and put the pistol in the back of my pants as I followed everyone else out of the back door and into the van that was parked next to the house. I stopped and turned to look at the house, and in that second taking in the dark grey color of the house that the sun made seem a bit less gloomy. I looked at the fire place and gave a sigh before turning my attention to the van in front of me and following Alan into the back of it.

Sam and I shut the doors as Joey sped off out of the driveway.

"How do we know this plan will work?" Kevin asked, leaning his rifle on his chest.

"Oh it will, one way or another." Joey made a left turn, "Felix has the kid, and he is somewhere where no one will find them. And all I have to do is make the call."

Both of the windows were open and the only sound was the air flow screaming through.

"The city sounds so different." I said, "It's like a ghost town."

I rested my head on my knees and shut my eyes. Everything was quiet, it was peaceful, but a part was missing; people were missing, scared to leave their homes. And that made everything so much more unsettling.

Within the silence of the streets, gun shots echoed and Joey slammed on the breaks and made a shushing sound as we all listened for anything that stood out.

A faint sound was heard in the distance, a voice bellowing on a speaker.

"What is it?" James gave Joey a look.

He turned to us, "I can't make out what it says, I'm going to drive further."

He stepped on the gas and we went forward, passing through a red light just as it turned.

"You're going to get a ticket for that." Kevin mumbled.

I looked over to him and knit my eyes, as if to ask why he was even thinking about that. He shrugged and turned his attention back to Joey who had his ear basically out the window.

"There, listen." he stopped and we all went silent.

And at least four blocks away, was a voice bellowing through a speaker. The same lines were repeating, and after a minute of listening, I got an idea of what was said.

"Surrender yourselves, or a civilian will be executed for your crime."

I looked at Joey, "They aren't serious, are they?"

A pop ripped through the air, causing the hair on the back of my neck to stand up. "I'm guessing they are..."

Joey slammed on the gas pedal, making us jerk forward. I regained my balance and looked at everyone as they all held onto the sides of the van trying to keep their balance.

"Joey what are you doing? Are we sticking to the plan?" James's knuckles turned white as his grip around the 'oh shit' handle tightened.

We swerved around two cars and I about bashed my head on the side of the van, but Joey just went faster. The engine roar grew louder and louder, making it feel like we were going at least 90 miles an hour.

"New plan: save the civilians and try not to get killed." Joey rammed through a pile of trash that sat in the middle of the road.

We saw a group of people ahead and Joey began to slow down, when we got close we realized who the people were; a mixture of civilians and inmates. Joey stopped when the crowd of people got thicker.

He kept the van running as he leaned his head out the window, screaming on the top of his lungs, trying to be louder than the voice on the speaker. But as soon as the voice got quiet, Joey's echoed through the crowd and they all turned to him.

"Here we are!" Joey said once more.

"What are you doing?" Kevin hissed, uneasily.

"Joey... Joey... Joey." The familiar voice gave me chills, the crowd opened and Kyle appeared, walking towards the van with his hands crossed over his chest. His hair was parted towards the side as he cocked his head and looked at us.

"What a pleasant surprise. What brings you here?" he smirked.

Joey turned and shot a look at James then proceeded to exit the van with his hands in the open, making sure no one would make any moves.

"We are not afraid of you, Kyle. You or Ryan," Joey nodded behind him, "And you think you could just kill innocent people for no reason? You are nothing like you father, but you are exactly like your uncle. And that's a shame because look what happened to him."

James made a look like never before, his face flushed and his eyes surveyed the air around him as he mouthed something to himself. He quickly looked up at Joey, who was still busy talking to Kyle.

"James--?"

A loud bang shook the car, cutting me from my words. Sam jumped up with his weapon in his hand.

"The plan!" he screamed.

Another bang shook the car, but this time it was less intense. The back doors to the van opened, showing the chaos that had abrupted outside. Four inmates with knifes jumped into the back with us as four others tried to grab our legs to yank us out of the van.

Sam was the first one to let shots off, missing two and hitting the one closest to me. I kicked an inmate as another grabbed me by the ankles, dragging me out of the van. Fists were thrown and I noticed an inmate put Sam in a chokehold as he dragged him out behind me.

I tried to fight the grip around my feet but once I did eventually break free, two more hands reached out and grabbed a hold of me, yanking me out of the van and onto the hard concrete. I managed to break the fall with my arms but my head still hit the ground, but I was still luckily conscious.

I had left my rifle in the back of the van, and the pistol felt as if it were about to drop out of my pants. So, I had to find something to fight with--or I was a deadman.

An agent jumped on top of me, his mask covered with smoke and ash from the two explosions that started this whole thing. He pulled his arm back and struck me in the face repeatedly.

A gunshot went off and the agent collapsed to the ground. Someone stood over me and I expected a blow to the face, but instead I got helped up and pulled to the side behind the van as Dean came into my face.

"What happened?" he asked.

"The plan." I told him.

He gave a confused look but then nodded and handed me a pistol that he had in his hand.

"I think this belongs to you. Find the others and get the hell out of here. You will all die if you fight like this!" he ordered.

I nodded as he ran off into the crowd, pushing passed the inmates who were not only fighting one another, they were fighting my friends and daring civilians who started to fight back. I cocked my pistol and tightened my grip around it as I surveyed through the crowd, looking for any familiar faces. It wasn't too long before I saw Alan and Kevin as they threw punches and kicks to the unarmed inmates around them.

"Hey!" I screamed, thinking it would cause them to turn their heads and understand that I want them to come over to me, but the only heads that turned were about four inmates, half of which, had pretty obvious weapons in their hands.

"Shit..." I thought, backing up and raising my hands, quickly regretting the decision I made to yell.

Multiple gunshots went off and everybody froze and then scattered in opposite directions. The four inmates in front of me looked around shakingly, they looked as I they had no clue as in what to do, then they all darted to the left. I stood where I was, confused and just a bit nervous from the unseen bullets that were supposedly flying.

But once everyone seemed to clear out and the only ones that were left were agents and the familiar faces of Joey and the others the gunshots seized and everything got quiet once again.

Sam and Alan stood up and brushed themselves off as I saw Sam wipe blood from his mouth. I started up to them looking around to see if everyone else was okay. Joey spat out blood and I noticed his lip and eyebrow was cut. James approached him and whispered something in his ear.

The agents that surrounded seemed just as confused as we were. I knew I heard gunshots, but no one was shot and there were no bullet holes in anything around us.

"What was that?" Sam gave me a look and I shrugged.

"That," Dean's voice approached us from the rear, "That was set to save your asses. What were you thinking? Starting something like that?"

"!" James screamed and started to charge him, cursing in what seemed like Russian.

Joey put his arm in front of him and shook his head, "No, James stop. Not now, we need to find Kyle and Ryan. Your beef between him can wait."

"Joey!" Kyle's familiar voice yelled.

A group of agents separated and Kyle stood up from the ground, his face cut and bloody.

"How's that feel, Mr. Morris?" snapped Joey.

Kyle began to laugh as he waved to his agents, who all began to surround us.

"Where is Ryan?" Joey asked.

"Wanna get to him? Gotta get through me, asshole!"

Joey laughed at Kyle's words, "Fine. But just so you know, you brought this on yourself, kid. I don't need to kill you to save the city, I do that afterwards."

Kyle knit his eyes and took a step back, "What do you--"

A loud static noise echoed through the city, playing on speakers and every radio that was on. The loudspeaker that once had that threat blaring through the city, now had the voice of Joey, who spoke in a calm but strict manor.

Joey started backing up looking at all of us as he did. We slowly started to regroup as we kept our eyes on the agents that surrounded us.

"Joey, what did you do?"

Kyle's voice was cut off by the speaker as it blared throughout the city.

"You do not have to be afraid! You do not have to be locked inside of your homes for the rest of your lives, fight back. Take this city back. You do not have to be afraid of the cowards that run this city!" Joey's voice on the speaker bellowed, "Citizens, there are still police forces and officials that will protect you. Fight back, take our city back! And do not be afraid of Kyle Morris or Ryan Barson! They are not who they think they are, we are stronger together. And we can fight together."

Around us people started to slowly come out of their houses, and once a few were seen coming this way with weapons, more and more joined in until a small army of civilians charged towards us.

Kyle's face flushed and he froze as he looked as us.

"What doesn't hurt you, will kill you." Joey spit.

The rush of civilians got towards us and as Kyle went to run, Joey pointed to him and screamed so that everyone would hear, "Get him!"

Everything happened so fast, the civilians pushed past us to get to Kyle. People fell and were trampled on. A gunshot erupted but the crowd still charged, waving weapons above them while yelling. I was shoved and pushed as I tried to get away from the middle of it all, running to the right as I shoved people and jumped over others.

I got an elbow to the face so suddenly it knocked me to the ground. I quickly got into a fetal like position as they stepped and jumped over me. I saw a leg get ready to kick me, but I quickly grabbed it and pulled the person to the ground, using his body to push myself up and jolt myself out of harm's way.

I got to a van and collapsed beside it, huffing and puffing as I wiped my bleeding and throbbing nose. I was away from the chaos, but just watching it, watching the civilians basically destroy everything in sight as Joey's words continued to bellow on the speaker, it gave me chills.

This city has gone through hell and I feel like we may have just made it worse. A car exploded in the lot across from us and I flinched. The group of people continued to throw stuff and tip things over.

Once the voice on the speaker stopped, the same one was heard, but closer. Joey was yelling orders, but all I could make out was the last part, the last word; Safehouse.

A feeling in my gut told me he wanted us to rendezvous at the safe house, but I wasn't sure which one he had meant. I sighed and stood up as I began looking around, unsure of where to go I figured I would just go back to the place they brought me after Cole had taken me.

I turned back to the crowd and watched as they continued to throw stuff. Something was whirled towards me and I quickly ducked as glass shattered behind me. Shaking my head, I quickly started towards the front of the van, hoping keys were inside of it.

When I got to the front of the van, a scream from the distance made me jump and turn, looking in the direction it had came from. I quickly looked back and took a step, only to be hit in the face by something sharp.

My eyes got blurry but the force of it didn't knock me over, a hand reached out and grabbed me, throwing me to the ground as a pistol was put to my head. I looked up as my vision slowly got clear again.

"Sorry to do this to ya, bud," The familiar voice said, "But it's not personal, it's just payback..."

He put his knee on my chest as I tried to fight him off, reaching next to him he pulled out a syringe and held my head to the left, revealing my neck as he stuck me with the needle.

"No--"

The weight above me let off and I was left going in and out of consciousness as a blurry face came into view. Hands grabbed the sides of my shoulders and I was dragged backwards before everything was a fuzz and I blacked out.

EPILOGUE

WHITE. White. White. Everything, everything seemed bright. So bright it hurt my eyes. My clothes, long sleeve, pants; white. No ceiling, no floor. Was I dead?

I didn't understand, why was I here? How long has it been? Too long. Too damn long.

I sat in the middle of the room, my hand over my face, my eyes locked on the color of my skin. The only different shade I have seen in months.

Has it been months? It's been months. Oh god, I need to leave. I need to get out of here.

I jumped up, screaming, "Help! Someone?"

Silence. Silence. I hate silence.

My hands went to my head, I was close to about pulling my hair out of my head. My head, my hair; white, bleached. Why? How? My beard, growing in white.

"Make it stop! Make it stop..." I pleaded. My voice seemed to echo.

Why would it echo?

I collapsed to the ground, grasping my hair, yanking it out until I looked down and saw the white pieces that were left in the palm of my hand. I screamed, tears fell from my eyes as I put my head down on the ground.

"Get your whiny ass up, be a man!"

I squeezed my eyes shut at the painful voice that brought back bad memories. This wasn't the first time I heard it.

"You heard me Wade!" Koby's voice sent chills down my back.

"No, no, no!" I sat up and looked around, "Stop messing with my head. You're not real! You are dead. You are dead..."

"Am I buddy?" he suddenly appeared next to me, walking towards me.

"No..." I got on my feet and quickly backed up, "No, stop! Don't get near me."

"You've failed," Koby laughed, "Just like I always knew you would."

I shook my head and looked down, squeezing my eyes shut.

"Look at me Wade! I am the one who changed your life, I am the one who you hate the most. You would kill me now, if given the chance, huh buddy?" he smirked at me, "But you know what, kid? You remind yourself of me, don't ya? Ha! I knew it. You can't stand me like you can't stand yourself. You're a failure. No wonder you always end up getting caught and Joey and the others wind up having to save your ass."

I shook my head, "It's not true..."

"Shut the hell up! Yes it is. And you know it. You want to die, you wanted to blow yourself up and leave everyone to fix this city by themselves! Didn't you?"

"No--"

"Didn't you?" he screamed.

"No!" I forced myself up and charged him, only to have him reappear behind me.

"Just like you killed that old man who saved your life!" I screamed, scratching at my throat until I collapsed to the ground, hiding my eyes with my hands. Taking deep breaths as my mind had to remind me to breathe.

"No..." I repeated the phrase, over and over. As if it meant something to me. Maybe it did.

"Help! Someone?" I screamed, shaking my head, "No..."

My throat hurt, it stung from the continuous screaming over the past few months I have been doing. I need to know someone was there. I needed to get out, I needed to escape. It's been too long.

I put my head down and ran my hand though my hair, yanking parts out as I took a deep breath. Looking up quickly, I saw a white paper plate with white rice that had been slid under the door. By who?

Someone gave me food. Three times a day. Everyday. I didn't eat it though. Never liked rice, especially white. White rice. I scooted to it, picked up the plate and stuffed a pinch full into my mouth then reached over and dumped the rest of it into a pile I had made of the other plate full of white rice that was to the left of the door. I wiped off the plate and put it to the right of the door on a pile of other plates from days before.

Three times a day. Three times. Fifty plates. Seventeen days. Seventeen.

I closed my eyes, letting a tear fall from my face.

SEVENTEEN DAYS. Seventeen days. Seventeen days.

"And counting..."

###

Warned You...

More Books From The Author Coming Soon:

Book #4 in The Only Ones Series

Zombie Apocalypse 2: Saints & Sinners

Jack

And Hopefully More to Come!

--------

Follow the Author on Twitter:

@pewslimdieshad1

Facebook Fan Page:

facebook.com/thecrew6

Site:

iluvmayo123.wix.com/iats

--------

Thank You For All Your Support!

--------

Be Sure To Grab The Other Books In This Series!

The Only Ones Series:

#1) The Only Ones

#2) Beyond Redemption

--------

In a Tight Situation Series:

In a Tight Situation

Convicted

Under The Influence

Victim of Battle

Hired Gun

The Crew

OTHER BOOKS BY TAYLOR:

Zombie Apocalypse

The Beast Inside Me

The Beast Inside Me 2

Leo

This Generation

My Brother's Sins

--------

PREVIEW TO 'JACK'

PROLOGUE

The harsh tone of the man's voice sent me to the ground. I got low, just as my brother taught me to do if I didn't want to fight. And I didn't want to fight the man, I knew better. I cowered lower, my tail between my legs, trying to make myself seem less of a threat. But it didn't seem to work, in fact, it seemed as if to make the man more angry. What did I do this time to make him so mad at me?

He screamed, shouted, and spit out awful threats and insults. Then he charges me, hand raised and eyes red; his vulgar smell made my senses cringe. He strikes me, over and over until he backs away and gets out of breath. I stand there, cowering down, my entire body burning and throbbing. I seemed almost immune to the pain. I manage to look up at the man as he grabs the bottle from the chair next to him.

He plops down and lets out a breath as he puts the bottle up to his mouth; his strange way to get a drink. I remain eye contact with him, trying to see if I helped him get his anger out. It was the least I could do after what I had done to make him angry. He looks at me and I suddenly look away, still in the same spot as before.

"Get out of here!" His arms go in the air and I dart into the next room. I was happy that I could make up for what I've done wrong to the man. I run to my comfort place, I know once I'm there I would be safe, and if I stay there, I would be good. I wouldn't make the man angry again.

I run pass bags and dart into the small opening, feeling safe as soon as I enter. I circle it, then lay down on the hard ground. As I silently cry, I find myself shaking as I lay there, still able to feel the man's hands on my skin; The continuous burning sensation that was left behind from the sudden bursts of stings that were left imprinted on my skin.

I didn't understand these things, I didn't know how to communicate to the man, and I didn't understand much of his language. He talks so differently than I do. It's almost impossible to know what he's saying. But I listen anyway.

My eyes were suddenly heavy, but a thought deep in my mind told me that I already knew that. I tried to fight the drowsiness, I had to watch over the man; protect him from anyone that would hurt him. Everything got dark and I found my head leaning to the side. I jolted up; Can't sleep, I wasn't allowed. It was my job to protect the man. I let out a breath and adjusted myself on the hard ground then found my eyes closing again, my eyes rolled back into my head. I tried to fight it, but the unquestioning desire for sleep washed over me.

It seems as if I rest for just seconds before a noise at the door jolts me awake. My head pops up, I look around as I smell the air. I knew that sound meant someone was here. And I loved meeting new people. Then the squeak of the door sends me on my feet.

People? People are here! My long tail sways side to side as I run towards the next room. I stop in the door frame and watch the man as he talks to the other person. I can hardly contain my excitement. My tail hits me on both my sides as I stare up at the two people as they said things that I didn't understand.

The man grabs something out of the other man's hand and nods. Oh god, he's coming towards me! I couldn't wait. I surged forward, tail moving furiously as I greet the stranger. I jump up on him, putting my nose in his face but the man next to him shouts and shoves me off of him. I back up and get low, my tail still moving.

The new man bends down closer to me. My heart races and my tail rubs against the floor as I lick my lips. I contain my excitement, for I know what would happen if I acted out again.

He reaches his hand out, I flinch, but he doesn't strike me. The comfort touch made my chest fill up with warmth. I wagged my tail furiously and scooted closer to the new man to give him the same attention he has gifted me with.

The man gets down next to me and hands the new man a shiny sharp object. I get closer to smell it, but he pushes my head away and lays me back on the ground. My tail continues to sway, my excitement is overwhelming, but this feeling in my chest makes up for all of it.

"Stay still!" the man forces me back to the ground. I obey, because I have to.

"You sure you still wanna do it like this?" the new man grabs the sharp object from the floor and puts himself on the top half of my body. The man copies his movement and lays on my lower half, "Just get it over with, I have someone comin' in a few for the pup."

It became tough to breathe, the amount of pressure on my body only allowed me to use short gasps to get air, but it was enough. I let out a little squeal, trying to ask them to get off; the only way I knew how to. But it didn't seem to work.

The new man held my head still as he came close to me. I eyeballed him, his hand raised up and I saw the silver things in his grip. I cried out one last time, but they never got off. He then grabbed my ear and pulled it up as hard as he could. I couldn't move, their bodies were vise-like, holding me so tight it became tough to breathe. There was a second of silence, then a quick sharp agonizing pain shot through my ear, making my skin shrivel and head tingle with a strange raw sensation. I screamed out at the unendurable immense amount of pain, but the weight on my body made it difficult to move.

The side of my head was covered in warm thick liquid. Struggling to get up and hide in my safe place, the new man then grabs a hold of my other ear and repeats the same painful process.

My entire head became aflame, pain shot through my head and throbbed throughout my entire body. Making me shake and scream out in pain.

"Hurry up and stop the bleedin'." the man grabs a long lighter from the other and a quick fiery sensation made the horrid pain more immense than before.

My body became painfully numb. Both my ears were on fire as the liquid that wet my entire face made me cold, I couldn't stop shivering. The two men stood up and the pressure released from my numb body but I remained where I was, drowning in my pain and anguish.

I didn't understand what I did this time. I thought the new man liked me.

"Little shit got blood everywhere!" the man kicked me then looked to the new man and pointed into the next room.

"I'll wrap his ears up, they should heal givin' time." the new man wiped his hands off on a dark shirt.

"Put that lamp thing on his neck, don't let him chew the bandages off." I watched as the man walked into the other room. I whimpered for him to come back. I didn't want to get up, the pain was too severe.

The new man bent down in front of me with a white object in his hands. I whimpered, cried, begged and pleaded for him to stop. I didn't want to be hurt no more.

I'll be good... I put my tail between my legs and began to tremble, afraid to be hurt again. The new man gradually wrapped the white thing around both of my burning ears. I cried the entire time. I was used to being in pain, but this was crippling me to the point all I wanted to do was die. My entire body shook with fear, pain, and anger. I wanted to lash out and get him off of me, run and run and never come back. But this was my home. And I didn't know if anyone else would except my bad behavior.

The man came back with my leash in his grip. My tail started moving, a walk! Finally... But I didn't want to move. I was in too much pain to even breathe. My ears were still stinging, now even worse since the new man put these things on them. Did they bite my ears off? It wouldn't make sense though, they wouldn't do that; unless I was bad. But was I bad?

"Come on, Jack!" the man let the long leash drop to the floor and my excitement took over, I bolted up on my feet and went towards him. Even though my tail was wagging, my body was aching from head to toe. But I was able to take the pain, because I had to look strong for the man. After all, I was supposed to protect him.

He hooked my leash on and the door swung open. Outside. I could barely contain myself, but I knew I had to. I wasn't going to be bad this time. We walked outside, the cold hard cement made my feet freeze, but it took my mind off of the agonizing pain coming from my ears. I didn't notice the sound of the slamming door until different voices were heard. Footsteps approached and I was greeted by kind words and a smiling face.

"You got the money?" the man tugged on my leash, pulling me backwards. I whined softly, the pain started to get worse each time I moved my head. I lowered my body to the ground, trying to lay down since were weren't going anywhere any time soon.

"Yeah, it's all there Johnny, just as much as you asked." the new person spoke differently.

I looked around and tried to sniff around, but I got yanked back by the man and stayed where I was. The new person handed the man something and in return, I noticed him give my leash to the new person.

Wait, what was happening?

The new person pulled me towards him, away from my home; my person. I struggled, he pulled me back. He was stronger than I was. I tried to turn and run back to the man, how was he going to be safe without me there to protect him? I cried out in sadness. I didn't want to leave him, I couldn't.

Oh god.

The person threw me into the back of a car. That's when I knew exactly what was happening. It was what happened countless times before. The person shut the door in my face and as he walked around the car, I looked out to the man who was walking back into his house with his friend. Thoughts swirled around in my head, but only two bugged me. And only one made me forget the pain that was throbbing in my head, and it was the other one that made me sad.

I let out a whimper and laid down, resting my hurting head on my paws. Breathing in, I noticed I was still shaking, maybe even worse than before. I didn't know where I was going, or what was in store this time. But I hoped it was better than the last few homes I was in.

I whimpered once more, the thought of my life before all this made my stomach knot up. I missed my mother. I could still remember her smell, her face, and her voice.

When the flow of air stopped, a horrid smell filled my mouth with such a bitter taste that it made me gag and get on my feet. I smelled around, trying to find the source of the horrible odor. There was nothing near me that smelled like that. I followed my nose over to the back seat, looking over the seat and taking another smell. It was coming from the seats in front of me.

A large black bag was in the middle of the seats. That's where the putrid smell was coming from. The bag had splotches of liquid, the same kind that was on my head. The liquid was drowning what looked like a pile of matted fur. That's when I saw him. His lifeless eyes gouged out, his ears torn to pieces and neck shredded from the unmistakable bite wounds. His ears were short, severed and forced upwards from a noticeable scar that looked as if the wound didn't quite heal completely.

I whimpered, backed up and looked at the person who had put me in here. I studied his face, his movements and the sound of his voice. For I knew that his might be the last one I ever hear.

END OF PREVIEW

BE SURE TO BE ON THE LOOK OUT FOR JACK

COMING SOON!

--------

Did you love _The Broken Platoon_? Then you should read _The Beast Inside Me_ by Taylor Evans!

There is a secret to our family. We're not like any other. Yeah, we fight, argue, and sometimes want to kill each other. My family is different. My brother, Dean, and I are werewolves, things get a little crazy. And Bloody.
Also by Taylor Evans

The Only Ones

The Broken Platoon

Standalone

The Beast Inside Me

# About the Author

Taylor Evans is an Author from Delaware, some of her work include brotherly love, family, and friendship. She mostly writes action and adventure but is also focusing on other genres as well.   
Taylor has been pursuing her writing career since she was 14 years old. She has been inspired countless times and hopes to inspire other people from the lessons she has learned throughout her life.
