

**THE TRAP**

Beverley Kendall

Copyright © Beverley Kendall 2014

Published by Season Publishing LLC

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are products of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously and are not to be construed as real. Any resemblance to actual events, locales, organizations, or persons, living or dead, is completely coincidental.

 www.beverleykendall.com

 Cover Design © Okay Creations, Sarah Hansen

 All rights reserved. Except as permitted under the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed or transmitted in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the author.

**  License Statement **

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each reader. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to the author and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

# **Note From Author**

There are some stories that need a beginning. Mitch and Paige's story,  **TRAPPED**, initially started in the aftermath of the pregnancy. But I found myself wanting to go back in time and tell how they came to be in that place. And that's how **THE TRAP** was born. I wanted to give readers more than just a flashback in time. I wanted to take the journey with them. As usual, what was supposed to be a 15,000 word prequel turned into a story closer to 20,000 words. I can't seem to write short. :)

I hope that after reading **THE TRAP** you'll want to follow Mitch and Paige to their HEA in  **TRAPPED**, which is scheduled to be released early this summer. Also, this book (soon-to-be-series) is connected to my first new adult series, _Unforgettable Yo_ u. You'll be able to catch up a bit with **Zach** and **Olivia** , the hero and heroine of  **ONLY FOR YOU**.

Happy Reading!

Bev

##  THE TRAP

#

_Looking back, I should have seen it coming._

Paige didn't like that I went so far away to university. But it was going to only be for two years. She'd join me after she did her two years at community college. I thought we could swing that no problem. We were solid.

But she hated the distance. She hated not seeing me every day. She complained that I didn't come home enough. She hated that for months on end, texting and phone calls were our only form of communication. It wasn't enough.

She'd ask about the girls on campus. She'd gotten it into her head that girls were always making a play for me. I laughed and told her, even if that were true, I'd never cheat on her. She didn't seem completely reassured by that.

The bottom line is, Paige thought she was losing me. She wanted me home with her. But I could never imagine the level she'd sink to—the trap she'd set to make that happen.

And like an idiot I walked right into it.

_And it's a mistake I'm going to have to pay for the rest of my life._

# Chapter One

Paige

Three weeks ago I peed on a stick. What followed were ten of the most agonizing minutes of my life, before one plus sign turned my whole world upside down and inside out.

Six hundred seconds.

That's literally how long it took for my life to implode.

You want to know what's so ironic about this?

Four months ago I became an adult and six months from now I'm going to be a mother. Talk about being plunged into adulthood with a vengeance.

The thing is, as weird as this might sound, I want this baby—Mitch's baby—more than I ever thought I would under the circumstances.

I mean he's it for me.

The one.

And I'm pretty sure we'd have come to this at some point. Of course it would have been after we'd both graduated from college and were married.

However, the situation is what it is. Now I just have to tell him. The thought of which causes the nausea I've been suffering the last two weeks to return in rolling waves, heating my face and turning my already queasy stomach. But being sick right now is a luxury I can't afford.

I inhale a deep breath, wipe damp palms down the sides of my frayed jean shorts and try to compose my expression into something that doesn't reflect the dread and terror making mincemeat of my insides.

As I'm mustering up the nerve to knock, the door to Mitch's apartment flies open and his gorgeous face is the most welcome sight I've seen since the last time I laid eyes on him.

Without giving me a chance to do or say anything, he tugs me into his arms. He makes a grumbled sound in his throat and then his mouth is on mine.

Instantly, my fears and gut-churning anxiety fall away. Going up on the balls of my feet, I wrap my arms around his neck and allow my senses to take over. For the moment, I'm more than happy to be led by them.

We haven't seen each other in what feels like forever. Ten weeks. Phone calls, text messages and skyping can't compare to this—being able to actually touch him.

There's a rough urgency to his kiss as our tongues and lips get down to the more serious business of getting reacquainted.

Wild is the only way to describe the way we go at each other, our breaths labored when we can come up for air long enough to take one. The kiss itself is toe-curling hot and I give as good as I get, sucking his full lower lip into my mouth. I know how much that turns him on.

Mitch emits a guttural groan and soon we're on the move. He practically drags me inside and I vaguely hear the door thump closed behind us.

He breaks the kiss and growls in my ear, "C'mon, let's go to the bedroom." At the same time, his hands skim down my sides and then cruise back up to cup my breasts. My super-sensitive, swollen breasts that have grown almost half a cup size in the past month.

A pained gasp escapes me before I can bite it back, and with it, I'm dropped on my head back into reality. My inescapable reality.

Mitch's head jerks up and back. My fingers have his dark-blond hair in a sexy disarray and his green eyes are still heated from the effects of our kiss as they widen in surprise before immediately narrowing in concern.

"What's wrong? Was I too rough?" he asks in the same deep baritone that's been setting me on fire since our sophomore year in high school.

"No," I croak, trying not to wince. "They're just a little sore." To put it mildly.

Mitch's gaze lowers to my more-prominent-than-ever chest.

It's bad enough that my current condition has me spilling out of my B cups, but my boyfriend's smoldering gaze isn't helping any. Under my fitted, white t-shirt, my nipples perk up at the attention. Shameless and clearly masochistic.

He curses softly under his breath and raises his gaze to mine. "Is it that time of the month?"

The weight of the disappointment in his voice is flattering and agonizing. There's nothing I'd love more than to spend the first couple hours of our reunion catching up between the sheets of his king-sized bed. But my news can't wait. It's the bomb that's been ticking for three weeks now.

"Kind of," I reply evasively, taking a small step back. Wait until he finds out that it won't be that time of the month for a very long time.

His shoulders drop as he expels a breath. Gradually, almost painfully, his mouth hitches up at the corners. "I gotta tell you, the timing sucks."

"Yeah," I agree, forcing a smile.

God, he doesn't even know the half of it. But I deliberately continue to let him think what he's thinking because I'm worse than the lion from The Wizard of Oz.

I haven't kidded myself that this is something he's going to be happy about. But it's not as if I think he'll bail on me. Actually, I know he won't.

How do I know?

One, because Mitch loves me. Yes, the last year has been hard because of the distance. Mitch is going to Warwick University, which is an eon away in upstate New York. To save money, I'm attending the local community college for two years here in Georgia. But the plan was that I transfer to Warwick after that. At least that used to be the plan.

The other reason I know Mitch won't bail on me is because he's not that type of guy. He's too mature and responsible. My mom thinks his parents' death matured him far beyond his years, and coming from Maureen Nichols that's saying a lot. Single mothers tend to judge men much more critically.

No, he won't be happy at first but he'll come around. And he'll want this baby as much as I do...eventually.

Mitch will make a great father. I know he will.

And I know we can make this work.

"Mitch." I don't mean it to, but his name comes out a scratchy whisper. I nervously clear my throat and step out of the circle of his arms. Grabbing his hand, I lead him down the hall.

After the car accident that took his parents' lives, Mitch went to live with his older sister, Diane, which is how a not-quite-seventeen-year-old, self-proclaimed jock managed to get his own apartment.

His sister married into an old-money Georgia family—and I'm talking big bucks. Her husband, Dan, is the CEO and owner of Tolston Homes, which is one of the premiere builders of luxury homes in the country. So you can imagine what their house looks like, right? Yeah, it's massive and luxury personified. I still try not to get all bug-eyed whenever I'm in the main house.

The thing is, Mitch has a five- and three-year-old nephew and niece, whom he adores. They, in turn, think Uncle Mitch is cooler and more entertaining than any amusement park or Pixar movie. You know what that means. Yep, they always wanted to be with him and were constantly underfoot. And in a house with more space than three families can possibly utilize, they made Mitch's bedroom their personal playground.

Dan suggested they renovate the house and add an apartment over the garage to give Mitch his own space.

My boyfriend thought his brother-in-law walked on water after that. And Dan, who is an architect by trade, doesn't do run-of-the-mill. Nope, he designed the kind of apartment that could be featured in his company's monthly magazine.

The place is absolutely gorgeous. The kitchen has a make-me-want-to-die-of-envy island and contains a large eating area. There are two bedrooms—one being the master suite—two bathrooms, a loft upstairs, and a huge family room with a vaulted ceiling.

In said family room, I make a beeline for the couch. It's chocolate brown, Mitch's favorite color.

"What's going on?" he asks lightly but there's a wariness in his eyes.

I sink onto the couch and tug on his hand to pull him down beside me. He acquiesces but continues to eye me, his forehead lightly creased.

My hands are starting to tremble so I release his and ball mine into tight fists on my upper thighs.

"O-kay, you're officially starting to scare the crap out of me. What's going on?" Mitch's stare is intense, like he's trying to see—or more appropriately—hear whatever's going on inside my head.

At this point, all he'd hear is a jumbled, scared-to-death bunch of nonsense. My heart is pounding so hard, I can hear the slosh of rushing blood in my ears. It's the beginning of June and a hot eighty-five degrees outside, yet goose bumps have formed on my bare arms and legs. My tongue takes refuge at the roof of my mouth.

The silence that follows is the oppressive kind.

I open my mouth to speak but nothing comes out. Mitch's eyes narrow, his expression becomes guarded and his jaw goes tight.

"Paige, are you breaking up with me?" His voice is low and very controlled. He looks as if he's bracing himself for a physical blow...or a fight.

I almost laugh at that. Almost. But the fear in his eyes strikes too close to my own. "No. Oh God, no. Never. I love you," I say softly, my voice reassuring and heartfelt.

Relief softens the line of his mouth and his hand engulfs mine completely. He gives me one of his half smiles. "Well thank God for that." After a beat of silence, that look of concern is back on his face. "Then what is it? Because I know it's something."

And it's that look, so naked and raw with emotion, that loosens the words lodged in my throat.

Swallowing hard, I bravely hold his gaze and say in a small voice, "I'm pregnant."

# Chapter Two

Mitch

Pregnant.

The more the word echoes in my head, the less sense it makes, and the less right it sounds. And when I picture the word in my mind, it just looks plain wrong. So I reject it. The meaning. The implication. Everything.

Paige may as well be on the other side of the country because that's how removed I feel from this whole situation. My body might be here but my mind is...not.

I don't even realize I'm shaking my head—denial the only thread I've got to hang on to—until Paige counters by nodding just as emphatically. "I am, Mitch. I'm pregnant," she says, her voice faint and raw, while I grapple with the reality of it.

The pregnancy my girlfriend just dumped in my lap.

This is right about the time the world can stop spinning and I'd gladly jump off. I didn't sign up for this.

Air. God, I need some fuckin' air.

I inhale but there isn't enough oxygen on this earth that can ever make breathing easier ever again.

My vision must have gone hazy because Paige's face comes back into focus. She looks alone and afraid. But as much as that lost-girl expression makes me want to hold and comfort her, right now there's nothing I want more than to put as much distance between us as I can.

I put my thoughts into action and stand, taking a couple steps back. Agitated, I run both hands through my hair, resisting the urge to yank the strands out by the roots.

For what feels like an hour, I simply stare down at her.

"Jesus Christ, Paige," I finally mutter, before turning and walking over to the kitchen counter. I need the damn thing for support. Elbows locked, I transfer my weight to the heels of my palms braced against the black-and-brown-speckled countertop. My shoulders are slumped and my head is down.

I'm so in my own head, I'm not even aware of Paige—don't realize she budged from where she was sitting—until I feel her hand on my shoulder.

"Talk to me." Her voice is as soft as her touch.

Do I really have to? That's what I want to say. But of course I don't. It's not as if not talking about it is going make the problem go away. Plus, I want to know how this happened.

Pushing off the counter, I turn and face her. "So this happened the one day I was home during spring break? That one night?" If there's a note of disbelief in my voice, it's because she's on the Pill and we had sex exactly two times on my surprise trip home. At ten the following morning, I was on a return flight back to New York. I was home eighteen hours.

Before that, Paige and I hadn't had sex since Christmas break. If she'd gotten pregnant back then, she'd be at least six months along, which clearly she isn't. My gaze drops to her narrow waist, and then lowers to her slim, lightly tanned thighs. If anything, Paige has lost weight since I last saw her.

Did I forget to say she's on the Pill?

She gives a hesitant nod.

"But how? You're on the Pill." We'd stopped using condoms when she went on birth control halfway through our senior year in high school almost two years ago.

"Nothing is one hundred percent effective, Mitch. You know that," she replies as if she's reading the warning straight off the box. "Women have gotten pregnant on the Pill."

For crissakes. The last thing I want to hear is that we've become some unfortunate statistic.

I let out a heavy sigh and tip my head back, my gaze going to the wood beams crisscrossing the ceiling in the family room.

Fuck shit fuck shit fuck shit. How the hell did she let this happen? Did she miss a day? Goddammit. How hard is it to swallow one fuckin' pill the same time every day? This is what I want to ask her but I can't bring myself to. Not when she looks like she'll break if I so much as look at her too hard. I give my head a mind-clearing shake and lower my gaze to her. "What are we going to do?"

She gives me a sharp look. "I'm not going to have an abortion," she states as if preparing herself for a fight.

Great, she's reading my mind. Now I feel like a complete asshole. I know how she feels about that. We've talked about it in the past—one of those theoretical discussions of course. Paige hasn't taken a political stance on the issue but it's something she said she wouldn't personally be able to do herself. She'd rather give the baby up for adoption than abort it.

"I know that," I say, playing it off as if it wasn't something I'd been considering. At the end of the day, we're in this together. "I meant do you want to keep it or put it up—?"

She's shaking her head before I even finish the question, her dark-brown hair whipping over her bare shoulders. "I want to keep it. I ju-just can't give our baby away." Now her voice is choked with tears.

Our baby.

Those two words cause a swell of guilt so overpowering, it's almost debilitating. I don't want to be reminded that this is my kid. Our kid.

I immediately reach out and draw her into my arms. "Baby, don't cry," I whisper, my mouth against her hair as I inhale the flowery scent of her shampoo. "I'll do whatever you want." Who gives a shit about what I want, right?

She lets out a soft contented sigh, locking her arms around my waist. Whatever resentment I'm feeling is soon suffocated by my feelings for her. I love her. I'm going to be there for her.

Whether I like it or not, we're having a baby.

* * *

Well I sure as hell can kiss Warwick goodbye. There's no way I can go back to New York after the baby's born is all I'm thinking as I watch Paige pull her tan Honda out of the driveway.

The second she's out of sight, I immediately go back to the kitchen and park my ass on one of the stools in front of the island. I rest my forehead against the cool granite instead of pounding it on it like I'm tempted to.

My life is so completely fucked.

I could tell Paige wanted to stay but after fifteen minutes of us reassuring each other we'd get through this together, she got the message that I needed some time alone to process "the news". You know, let it sink in. Her words not mine. I told her we'd talk about what we are actually going to do later.

Hell yeah I need time to process it.

Why the fuck did we ever stop using condoms? I can lament that decision for the next year, but it's not going to change anything. I'm going to be a father.

Me. A nineteen-year-old soon-to-be sophomore who lives with his sister and her family.

I'm not ready to be anyone's father. Shit, I don't even think I'm ready to take care of myself.

I'm definitely going to have to find a job. College may need to be part-time and I'm going to have to transfer my credits to one of the colleges here. And no more football, that's for sure.

My mind is spinning just thinking about how my life is going to change.

The sound of the doorbell ringing, followed by knocking jars me out of where I am in my head. Right now, it's not a nice place to be.

It's my best friend Josh. He's the only person who subjects me to the simultaneous knock/bell combination.

I seriously think about ignoring him but my car's in the driveway so he knows I'm home. Which means he's not going anywhere until I show my face.

Fine. It requires a ton of mental effort to move but I do it. By the time I yank open the door, he's rung the bell two more times and I'm this close to breaking the finger he's spinning his basketball on.

"What the fuck's your problem?" Right now, I'm pissed off at the whole world, which happens to include him.

All my growl elicits is a raised brow. "Why aren't you answering your phone? I've called you about four times," he says as if I hadn't spoken.

"Paige was here," I grunt as he breezes by me. I kick the door closed behind him. Unlike my girlfriend, he doesn't give a shit if it looks like I'm not up for company.

Josh is more like family than friend. He bloodied the nose of a nine-year-old kid who was picking on me when I was five. Josh was eight. He's kind of watched out for me since. Last year he graduated from Stanford and now he works at his uncle's computer company as a graphic software designer. He may dress and act like a jock but the guy's a lot smarter than he looks or lets on.

"Right, Paige. Is she still friends with what's her name?" he asks, dropping the basketball on the wood floor and trapping it under his foot.

I roll my eyes. "As if you forgot her name." He acts like he can't stand Paige's best friend, Erin, but it's obvious to everyone but him and Erin that he has a major thing for her. I'd call him on his shit if I didn't have other way more important things on my mind.

Yeah, like the fact that my girlfriend is having a baby.

My kid.

"What's up with you?"

Josh's question snaps my gaze back to him. I shake my head as I walk back into the family room and over to the couch I recently vacated. My friend follows me. He knows something is wrong. And it's not as if I'm trying to hide it—or can hide it from him.

Leaning forward, my forearms propped on my thighs, I watch him as he sits in the chair across from me. "Paige is pregnant," I state simply. There's no point in beating around the bush, I just rip the Band-Aid off.

He makes a sound in his throat and his eyes go wide. Been there, done that.

After several seconds of shell-shocked silence, his back lands against the chair with a soft thump. His gaze hasn't left mine.

"Tell me you're shittin' me."

"Do I look like I'm kidding?" Guys don't ever joke about shit like this. He, of all people, should know that.

A low whistle emerges from between his teeth. "Holy shit."

Yeah, you don't say.

Next comes the staring match. Josh blinks first but my announcement has left him speechless—a definite first. You see, Josh is the guy with all the answers. Well, except when it comes to women. Which is why this whole pregnancy thing is out of his scope of knowledge and definitely out of his comfort zone. There's only one thing he knows how to do with the opposite sex and it doesn't require a lot of thinking.

"So, what are you going to do? Is she planning on keeping it?" he asks, finding his voice.

"Of course she's going to keep it," I snap in all my self-righteous hypocrisy. But he doesn't know that.

His hands go up in a gesture of surrender. "Whoa, don't shoot a guy for asking. I don't know what's going on inside your girlfriend's head."

I'm being a dick and I know it. Had the situation been reversed, I'd have asked him the same thing.

"Look, you gotta cut me some slack, I just found out today. And I don't know what we're going to do. But there goes football and I'm going to have to transfer out of Warwick." And just wait till I tell my sister. She's going to have a cow.

"You sure the kid is yours?"

Josh might as well of punched me in the face. Before I can get to him and tear his head off, he's on his feet, his hands so high this time, he's waving a white flag. "I'm just asking," he says defensively. "I mean you're up in New York most of the time. You don't know what she's doing when you're not here."

If he knew how close I am to beating the shit out of him, his ass would be halfway to his car by now. I stand and make a move toward him but the look on his face stops me cold. Something in his eyes tells me he's not simply trying to get a rise out of me. He knows something.

I pull back and look him dead in the eyes. "Is there something you want to tell me, Josh?"

# Chapter Three

Josh visibly relaxes but he's smart and puts a couple more feet between us. "Only if you promise to calm the hell down. I don't want to have to hurt you," he adds with a cocky smirk. That's his idea of humor and his way of dialing things down a notch.

"In your dreams," I say, keeping my temper in check.

I'd like to think being a football player would give me the advantage in a fight between us, but we have similar builds and at six foot two, I don't even have an inch on him.

Yeah, the guy works a desk job but he wasn't nicknamed "Josh the Jock" for nothing. He may not have been good enough to go professional, but he's better than average in all the sports that count, which would be football, soccer, basketball and baseball. His mom is a Canadian transplant so he'd include hockey on that list.

"I'm not feeling your calm vibes," he shoots back smartly.

"Cut the crap. Do you know anything about Paige being with another guy or not?"

In a flash, he's turns all serious on me. "I just see her with that Calder guy sometimes and I can tell he's got it bad for her."

I relax my stance and breathe easy. "There's nothing there. They're just friends." Believe me I asked her about Trent when we first started going out. The deal is that their mothers are best friends. Paige said she thinks of the guy as a brother and I believe her because she's never given me reason not to.

Josh let's out a dark laugh. "If you say so."

"I think the guy's got it bad for Erin not Paige." And just as I thought it would, my bullshit statement takes the wind right out of his sails. I have no idea who Trent is into. But let Josh chew on that for a bit.

"What? Erin would never go for a guy like that." Josh's tone is dismissive but he doesn't look too sure about that.

"Whatever. I don't really want to talk about them."

"Yeah, right. Not that I care anyway," he says. "So are you serious, you're just going to drop out of Warwick and that's it? God, man, don't you guys use protection? This shit doesn't happen by accident."

"She's on the Pill. It wasn't supposed to happen." A wave of sheer helplessness washes over me.

Josh snorts. "Yeah, I've heard that before. I don't give a shit what women say, I always come with my own protection. I'm not trusting that to any female."

My friend has serious trust issues when it comes to females. But that's a whole other story.

"Yeah, well I trust Paige," I say with conviction.

"And I've heard that before too."

I shoot him a look that makes him take a step back. "Fine, she's your girlfriend. You know her best. But I'm just saying, females have been known to pull shit like this."

"Look, I've got a lot to think about so..." I look pointedly toward the door.

His lips thin as he stares at me for a few seconds, then with a sigh, he turns and strides to the hall where he retrieves his basketball. "You sure you don't want to talk about it?" he asks, staring back at me.

I bark a laugh. "Yeah, no. I think I've had enough of your pep talk."

Some emotion I can't discern flickers across his face. "Hey, I'm just looking out for you."

Which is what he's always done, even when I'd grown tall enough and became strong enough to fight my own battles. Sometimes, I think he's worse than my sister, who is way overprotective of me.

"Yeah, well just lay off my girlfriend." It's hard to stay mad at Josh because I know he means well—in his way.

He pauses as if he hopes I'll change my mind and ask him to stay. When I don't say anything, he smiles faintly. "Alright, man, I'll see you around. Give me a call if you wanna talk or shoot some hoops."

As I watch him leave and hear him bounding down the stairs, I can't imagine when that'll ever be.

* * *

Paige

"So how did it go?" Erin asks the second we're in her room. My best friend lives in one of the Tolston's homes in a community where the houses are called estates. Suffice it to say, her bedroom is half the size of the whole main floor of my house.

She tows me to her bed and I let her pull me down onto the pillow-top mattress. As crappy as I feel, I want to purr when my butt makes contact. If you haven't slept on one, you haven't lived.

"So?" she prompts, tucking her hair behind her ears and leaning in close. So close I can see flecks of dark blue in her light-blue eyes.

Erin is a natural beauty. And by natural, I mean her dark-auburn hair doesn't come from a bottle. I used to envy her the four inches she had on me, and her bigger bustline until Mitch made it clear he was more than satisfied with me the way that I am.

"He was shocked."

"Yeah, tell me something I don't know. I mean what did he say? What is he going to do? Is he going back to New York—to college?"

My shoulders lift and fall in a shrug that feels almost as helpless as I do. "I don't know. We haven't talked about that yet." It's hard to look her directly in the eyes because she can read me like a book. That's what happens when you've been best friends with someone since kindergarten.

"Okay, so what did you talk about?"

"We—we didn't really talk, he just said it was going to be okay," I say softly, remembering the pained look on his face. The expression that told me I'd shattered his dreams with I'm pregnant.

"So did he ask you to—you know...?"

Get rid of it. Get an abortion. She can't even bring herself to say it.

The truth is, I'd barely been able to get the word out when I'd told him I wouldn't have one.

"I already told you he knows I won't. Would never."

She'd been skeptical when I'd told her Mitch wouldn't ask me to have one because he knows I'd never do it. What I'm not going to tell her is that I hadn't given him a chance to ask because I'd been terrified that he would.

"So when are you going to tell your mom?"

If never was an option, that's when I'd choose. "Soon, I guess. She's going to need time to prepare." Figuratively and literally.

Don't get me wrong, my mom is fantastic, which is why telling her is going to be so hard. She's the type of mother who will bend over backward trying to support me and her grandchild. And she'll do it with a smile on her face. What she'll try to hide from me is her bone-deep disappointment. I may technically be an adult but I'm still her teenage daughter who lives at home and isn't old enough to legally drink. I'm her baby.

"Hey, you're lucky. At least your mom's not like mine. Mine would go ballistic. Can you imagine Margaret Jean Bancroft having to explain something like that to her country club friends?" Erin half jokes, arching a perfectly plucked eyebrow.

My friend mostly refers to her mother by her first name. They've got that unmotherly-undaughterly relationship down pat. Mrs. Bancroft criticizes everything her daughter does—this I've witnessed countless times over the years—and Erin has stopped trying to please her. It's been that way between them since about the time Erin was twelve and it doesn't look like it'll change anytime soon.

"Yeah, I know, it's just that I know she's going to be crushed. I know somehow, some way, she'll blame herself and wonder where she failed me," I say, my voice low and subdued.

Erin knows my mom well enough to know that's true so she simply nods.

"So when are you guys really going to talk about what you're gonna do?"

"I don't know. Tomorrow I guess." I hope. I'll call Mitch tonight and see if he sounds more receptive—more ready to talk. I don't know what I'll do if he decides to go back to New York in the fall. And then there's football camp in four weeks.

"Are you going to tell him...?" She doesn't say it out loud, just looks pointedly at me, and I feel her gaze like an accusing finger.

The only sound that can be heard in the room is the rustling of my hair as I give myself a vigorous head shaking.

"Never?" she asks quietly. Too quietly. There's more than a little censure in her voice now.

"What would be the point? I'm already pregnant." And all it would do is give Mitch a reason to blame me. To hate me.

She nods slowly but I can tell by her expression that she doesn't agree with me. In her eyes, I'm lying by omission. In my mind, it's called not adding fuel to the fire.

I shift uncomfortably on the bed but force myself to retain her gaze.

"You know, if he finds out...?" Her voice trails off ominously, her warning and meaning clear.

Just the thought has my heart beating hard and fast and for a second I feel as if I'm suffocating. I inhale a slow, deep breath in an effort to control my rising panic and the wave of guilt that threatens to consume me.

"He's not going to." This is one omission I'm going to take to the grave.

# Chapter Four

Mitch

The following day, I arrive at Paige's house shortly before eleven in the morning. When Mrs. Nichols answers the door and ushers me in, she's all big smiles and warm greetings. It's obvious she still doesn't know I knocked up her only daughter.

As I follow her from the front to the foot of the staircase, she glances at me over her shoulder and remarks, "And don't you look tanned and handsome. Is it my imagination or have you grown taller since the last time I saw you. And it looks like you've gotten broader in the shoulders. Is that what that university is doing to you?"

I should be used to Mrs. Nichols by now but I feel heat suffuse my face. I swear to God, she's the only woman who can make me blush. "Yeah, well that and the weights. Gotta keep in shape for football," I reply, praying she'll quit with the compliments.

It would be one thing is she looked like a regular mom, but Paige's mom is the sort of mother who turns heads wherever she goes. Dark-haired, blue-eyed and slim, she's the older version of my girlfriend. And not even that old. She had Paige when she was twenty-one, which means she's not even forty yet. My mom was forty-three when she had me. I was one of those late-in-life babies.

"Paige is in her room. She's not feeling well though, but you can go on up."

"Thanks, Mrs. Nichols."

She laughs lightly. "How many times have I told you to call me Maureen? You're part of the family."

Boy, she doesn't know the half of it.

But I don't call any of my other friends parents' by their first names. My parents drilled that into me and old habits die hard. I just nod into her smiling face and head upstairs.

She's also the only mother I know who doesn't have a problem with her daughter being alone in her room with her boyfriend. But then Paige said her mother has always been realistic when it comes to sex and that kind of stuff. She promoted abstinence but also wanted Paige to be prepared and protected. Knowledge is power and all that.

Yeah, right. Look where that got her daughter. Still knocked up at eighteen.

Fuck! Fuck fuck fuck.

I give a preemptory knock on the Paige's door before I enter to find her lying face up on her bed.

Startled, she quickly removes a washcloth from her forehead, tosses it on the nightstand and pushes up onto her elbows. "I thought you said you weren't coming until after lunch."

"My sister came home early and took Tess and Doug to their swimming lessons so I didn't have to stay." I advance toward the bed. Normally, all I'd be thinking about is joining her there and fooling around for a while. Now all I can think is it was all that fooling around that got us into this mess. Because really that's what this is. One giant complicated mess.

"Why didn't you call and tell me then?" she asks, her voice a bit raspy.

Since I don't know will either piss her off or make her cry, I don't say anything as I take a seat next to her on the side of the bed. She raises herself to a sitting position. Her long hair is a tangled mess and she's not wearing any makeup—not that she wears much to begin with. But today she's unusually pale.

"How're you feeling?" I ask instead. "Your mom says you're not feeling well."

"Not so great," she admits with a grimace.

"Yeah, looks like you had a hard night."

"More like I had a hard morning." She gives me this weird look and I stare back at her. "As in morning sickness," she elaborates.

"Oh yeah, right." Shit, everything in my head is kind of fuzzy right now. I'm not thinking straight. "So I was thinking a lot about...everything. I'm going to transfer to one of the local universities so I can live at home and be close to you and the baby." I hope to God she's not expecting a proposal. We may not be too young to make a baby but we're way too young to get married. I'm far from ready for that.

Paige's eyes flare with emotion and her mouth starts to tremble. "Mitch, are you sure?" she asks in a hushed, anxious voice.

Am I sure?

I suppress a dark laugh because my girlfriend's staring at me as if her entire future depends on my answer. She doesn't want to know the truth. I don't think she could stand to hear how I truly feel and what I really want to do.

Escape. Run.

The only thing stopping me is that I love her and she's having my kid. A powerful combination if ever there was to step up to the plate. So I bottle up the toxic mix of anger and resentment I can't seem to shake, and bury it as deep as it can possibly go.

"Yeah, I'm sure. You're going to need me closer and I'm going to need to get a job. I might only be able to go to school part-time." My sister manages the trust that was set up for me when our parents died. Even after Diane insisted I have her half, the money from their life insurance isn't enough to set me up for life but it would have been able to go a long way if managed properly. A baby will definitely take a chunk out of that.

Paige isn't normally a crier so when she does—like now—her tears are their own form of kryptonite. Talk about being taken down for the count. Yeah, that's me. I'll do anything short of murder to make them stop. In this case, I pull her into my arms, taking care not to smush her boobs.

"I'm soooo sorry." She sniffs as her tears soak through my t-shirt. I kiss her wet cheek as she clutches my shoulders then winds her arms tightly around my neck.

"Paige, I'm not blaming you," I murmur softly into her ear. "We did what we could. This isn't your fault so no apologies." Logically, I know that's true but a small part of me will always wonder if this wasn't something she could have prevented, which of course makes me feel like shit.

She cries harder and burrows into me.

I get it. Birth control was her responsibility and now she's probably feeling guilty as hell. As much as this baby is going to change my entire life, I don't want that. If we'd stuck with condoms and I hadn't dumped the responsibility of birth control completely in her lap, we wouldn't be in this situation.

"Hey, come on. I'd thought you'd be happy to have me closer. Remember how much you've been complaining you never see me? Well you're going to be seeing me practically everyday from now on," I tease, hoping that will stop the tears.

If anything, she cries even harder. Suddenly she stiffens, pulls back and her hand flies to her mouth. I hear a muffled, "I think I'm going to be sick," before she makes a dash for the door. She fumbles with the knob for a second before she wrenches it open.

By the time I follow her into the hall, she's in the bathroom heaving over the toilet.

Crap! Bring on the morning sickness.

I hurry to her side. "Hey, you okay?"

She's puking her guts out. Of course she's not, dumbass.

I'm officially as useful as training wheels on a Harley. But what are guys supposed to do in situations like this, except to stand there looking like we don't know our ass from our elbow?

After she finishes, she remains bent at the waist panting, her hair a curtain hiding her face. When she finally answers, she won't look at me. "Please leave. I don't want you to see me like this."

"You want me to get you some crackers or something?" Aren't they supposed to settle the stomach? I know my sister practically lived on them the first few months she was pregnant with both her kids.

Head still down, Paige moves to the sink and turns on the water. "Okay. Maybe they'll help."

That's what she says but I think she just wants me out of her hair for a bit. I guess no girl wants her boyfriend to see her like this. The last glimpse I have of her, she's dabbing toothpaste on her toothbrush.

All is quiet when I make my way downstairs and into the kitchen. I've fixed myself enough sandwiches in here over the years that I know where everything I need is. I grab a plate from the cupboard over the microwave and locate a box of crackers in the small pantry.

"You got everything you need in there, sweetheart?"

My head jerks around hard enough to give me a mild case of whiplash. Mrs. Nichols is standing at the entrance watching me, her expression not conveying a hint of suspicion. Then why do I feel as if I've been caught breaking and entering?

"No—uh—no, I'm good." I hold up a sleeve of crackers. "You were right, Paige isn't feeling well. I thought I'd get her something to eat."

Lame lame lame lame. She's going to see right through this whole cracker ploy for what it is. Attempts to settle her pregnant daughter's stomach.

Mrs. Nichols lets out an audible sigh as her brow puckers in sympathy. "Poor thing. Those cramps have always been such a nightmare. For that reason alone, I wish she'd remained on the Pill."

For the second time in as many days, everything stops. My breathing. My heart. And I'm pretty sure the couple seconds it takes for her words to register and their meaning to sink in, time grinds to a halt too.

Paige's mother chokes back a laugh as she takes in my expression. "Oh dear, weren't you supposed to know that I knew my daughter was on the Pill? Or is it me talking about a woman's cycle that embarrassed you?" she asks, a smile tugging at the corners of her mouth.

I clear my throat. "Uh no." It's a billion times worse than that.

"Good. It's just hard to see her suffering like this every month, especially not if she doesn't have to." She looks pointedly at the crackers in my hand. "I used to give her them to settle her stomach back then too."

I'm still locked in this sort of weird limbo fog of disbelief when she says, "Give me a shout if you need anything." She turns to leave then pauses and shoots a glance back at me. "Oh and you may want to take some strawberry jam up with that. That's how she likes them." With that, she disappears down the hall.

It takes me at least another minute to get my shit together, to control the emotion building inside. I'm too fuckin' calm when I dump some crackers on the plate and take the stairs back up to her room.

Paige doesn't know it yet, but the course of this whole thing has just changed.

# Chapter Five

Paige

The second Mitch comes back, I don't sense something's wrong, I know it. When he walks over to the bed and hands me the plate of crackers, his expression is carefully blank. Accompanying his return and clinging to him like a second skin is a draft of wintery air.

Wholly unnerved, I accept the plate slowly and watch him with mounting apprehension. Instead of resuming his seat on the bed, with a fleeting glance at me, he moves and stations himself in front of the window. There he shoves his hands in the front pockets of his jeans and peers through the vertical blinds out into the backyard. There's not much to see back there but a square, concrete patio and a small lawn that my mom's boyfriend, Randy, insisted on mowing last week.

"What's wrong?"

He doesn't answer, just keeps staring out the window but it's obvious he's not looking at anything in particular. Plus his jaw is tight and his shoulders are bunched, which is the way he gets when he's tense.

"Mitch?" I prompt, my anxiety climbing at double-digit increments.

"Are you still on birth control?"

My heart jumps at the question. My stomach promptly sinks at the cold flatness of his tone.

He knows.

It takes me a few seconds to work up the nerve to reply. "Not anymore." My voice is so faint it's almost nonexistent. I know exactly what's coming and it's fear that has me by the throat. Fear that's making it so hard to breathe and too easy to hyperventilate.

He angles his head toward me, one eyebrow quirked. "Games? Alright, I'll play. Were you taking birth control the last time we had sex?" he asks with exaggerated patience. But that tone is contradicted by the prominence of the bulging vein running down the side of his neck.

Had I an hour to prepare myself for this question, I don't know that I'd be able to answer it. Not to his face. The guilt however, I'm pretty certain, is clear as day on my face.

Hands still deep in his pockets, he advances to where I'm sitting frozen on the bed. I can see the delineation of every muscle in his arms—tanned, taut and hard. Tense.

"Your mom thinks you have the cramps and she says if you hadn't gone off the Pill you wouldn't have to deal with them."

It's an affectation, the conversational tone he employs. His jaw is working as if it's cracking walnuts and in his eyes is an emotion I've never seen directed at me.

Loathing. Disgust. Seething anger. A ticking bomb ready to explode.

For the first time in my life, I wish I had lied to my mom. She'd been poking around in my bathroom looking for eyeliner when she'd found my pills—two untouched containers of them, the date of the prescriptions months old. When she'd asked me if I'd stopped taking them, I'd had no reason to lie to her. She knew the problem I'd been having finding the "right" pill—something without the side effects I'd been experiencing since I'd gone on birth control. Plus, with Mitch in New York most of the year, I wasn't having sex all that much. Better to go back to using condoms, which I'd planned on telling him the next time he came home.

"Why didn't you tell me you'd gone off the Pill, Paige?" Every word of his question is painstakingly enunciated.

I gulp hard and briefly avert my gaze from his.

Slowly I swing my legs from the bed and onto the carpeted floor. It takes all the courage in me to stand and look him directly in the eye. "I wasn't thinking. I swear, Mitch, I forgot."

At the spark of disbelief and building storm in his eyes, I hurry on to say, "I wasn't expecting to see you and I was so happy to see you...I forgot."

"That's bullshit and you know it," he growls in this deep, dark, scary ass voice. His anger is so palpable I might have retreated if the backs of my thighs weren't already butting the mattress.

"You should have fuckin' told me you'd stopped taking the goddamn pill."

The sound that emerges from my throat is so fearful and guilt-ridden it's barely above a whisper. "I'm sorry, I—we kinda got carried away..."

"No," he bites out in a voice that causes me to flinch. "This wasn't an accident. You did this shit on purpose."

There is more than accusation in his voice. He's already convicted me.

"Mitch, you know my situation. Do you honestly think I'd get pregnant on purpose?" I know this looks bad but I can't believe he thinks that little of me. That I'd be capable of something like that. God, it isn't as if my life isn't hard enough. I already have one student loan and I work part-time waiting tables. I pay for my own clothes, cell phone and car insurance as well as helping my mom out every now and then when money's tight. I'd be out of my mind to purposely get myself knocked up.

His eyes narrow and his lips compress into an inflexible line. "You didn't want me to go away to college. You blow up my phone almost every night, almost like you're checking up on me. Oh, and you didn't tell me you'd stop taking birth control. I don't know, what do you think? Doesn't that sound like a girl who set out to get pregnant so she could ruin her boyfriend's life?"

For the first time, my own anger catches fire and my face heats with it. "You told me you wanted to be with me just as much as I wanted to be with you. Who was willing to ask his sister to release money out of the trust to help pay for my tuition at Warwick? And you called me just as much as I called and texted you when you were at school, so don't try to make this out like it's all me and I'm some jealous shrew."

"You lied to me, Paige. Don't you fuckin' get it?" he says, breathing hellfire all over me as he gets right up in my face.

Right then my anger dies a violent, defeated death and I can't meet his gaze. "I swear, Mitch, I didn't do it on purpose." I tentatively edge my gaze back up to his. "You remember how it was that time. We didn't even make it to your bedroom."

We hadn't even made it to the couch the first time. We'd only gotten as far as the welcome mat at the front door. My top had been pushed up, my bra pushed to the side and my jeans and panties had only come off out of sheer necessity. Mitch's jeans and boxer briefs had cleared his hips and that had been the extent of him undressing. What we'd done up against the wall of the front entrance had given a new meaning to the term fast and furious.

If anything, what I say only makes him angrier. "I don't care if sex between us literally caused the earth to shake and the sky to fall, you should have fuckin' said something. You don't forget shit like that unless you fuckin' mean to."

If he wasn't staring at me like I'm lower than pond scum, the fact that he's dropping the f-bomb like there's no tomorrow tells me just how pissed off he is. I can count on one hand the number of times I've heard the word come out of his mouth the entire time we've been together.

"Mitch, I said I'm sorry. What more do you want me to say?" Nothing I say now can undo the past.

"How about you try telling me the truth." He steps back as if he can't stand to be near me anymore.

"I told you the truth," I protest weakly, doing my best to stem the onslaught of tears.

"Yeah right," he snaps, treating me to a look of utter contempt. When he turns on his heels and starts toward the door, I unconsciously follow him there. Before I can say another word, he's already bounding down the stairs.

I'm so stunned by his abrupt departure, all I can do is listen to him leave, the front door rattling shut behind him. Seconds later, his car roars to life.

I stand there, my hands white-knuckling the doorknob of my bedroom door until I can't hear his car anymore.

"Paige," my mom calls out from downstairs.

Still in a state of shock, I step out into the hall and approach the stairs, the pain in my chest near crippling. I peer down at my mom, who is standing at the bottom, her hand on the railing.

"Did Mitch leave already?" she asks, looking perplexed.

I'm afraid that if I try to speak I'll break, so I just nod.

My mom starts up the stairs toward me, her puzzled expression now full-blown concern. "Honey, what's wrong? Did you guys get into a fight?"

The closer she draws toward me, the harder it is to hold back my tears. My mouth starts to tremble and tears pool in my eyes. The thought of losing Mitch and just thinking about what I'm about to put my mom through is more pain than I think I can bear.

"Oh baby, what's wrong?" she asks, her voice getting all panicky with alarm.

She hurries the last few steps to the top, immediately pulling me into her arms.

That's when I completely lose it. There's no stopping the tears now and they come hard and strong.

"Paige baby, what is it?"

She holds my face gently in her palms, her tone urgent.

I have to catch my breath before I can say it. "I'm pregnant."

A shocked breath escapes her lips. There's a pause then she closes her eyes and breathes deeply through her nose. When her eyes open again, there's no mistaking how hard the news has hit her. She looks devastated.

A sob catches in my throat.

"Oh honey." Her voice is soft and mournful.

"I'm sorry, Mom," I whisper hoarsely, almost incoherent in my grief.

She hugs me tighter and I bury my face in the crook of her neck, crying my heart out.

"Don't worry, honey, I'm here for you. We'll get through this together."

The entire time she's hugging me, whispering comforting words in my ear, the only thing I can think about is Mitch. Is he going to be there for me?

* * *

Mitch

Betrayed. Duped. Conned. That's how I feel.

And I trusted her. If anyone had told me that Paige would try to fuck me over this way, I'd have told them they were full of it. Paige pull some shit like this? Never in a million years. Not the Paige I know.

Yeah, that's how much I know the real Paige.

Why I ever thought she was different is beyond me. I mean this happened to two former buddies of mine, Carl and Don. You know where they are now? Working dead-end jobs. Tied down with a girlfriend and baby. We lost touch after high school—they barely graduated—but I see them around now and then. They both look like life screwed them over well and good. Someone told me Carl is on baby number two. I wouldn't be surprised to learn that their girlfriends had pulled the same shit.

"You owe me."

At Josh's voice, I lift my head from my beer and watch him drop into the chair across from me. He's wearing a pair of chinos and a button-down shirt, which is dressed up for him. I called him a half hour ago, about an hour after I left Paige's, and asked him to meet me at a hole-in-the-wall dive bar on the other side of town near the community college. They serve college students no questions asked, so no fake ID required. And boy did I ever need a drink.

"She must not have been that important if you dropped her to meet me here," I say.

Josh grins, shrugging nonchalantly. "I had to promise to take a rain check. I told her I had to go bail my friend out of jail."

"You're fucked."

"No, I was getting ready to get fucked and your call interrupted that," Josh replies, laughing. When I don't return his smile, his expression sobers and it's then he appears to remember why he's here in the first place.

"So what's up? Something happen with your baby mama?"

I glower at him. "Fuck you." I detest that term.

Josh barks a laugh. "Alright, I'll shut it if you tell me why you dragged me away from Tiffany."

If I don't tell someone, I'll go crazy but I don't respond right away. Then I just spit it out. "She stopped taking the Pill and didn't tell me."

Josh makes a choking sound in his throat. He shakes his head, his expression disbelieving. "Are you shitting me?"

You see, he may have asked about Paige getting knocked up on purpose, but deep down, he didn't really believe she'd do something this low.

I give him the do I look like I'm fuckin' joking look before taking a long swallow of my beer.

When he realizes I'm not, he gives a low whistle under his breath. "Holy shit. Man, that's pure evil."

Placing the bottle down in front of me, I prop my elbows on the table and rub my palms over my face.

"What are you going to do?" Josh asks, quickly transitioning into full-concerned-friend mode.

"I don't have a fuckin' clue," I mutter. I'm too overwhelmed by everything to be able to think clearly.

"Are you one hundred percent sure the kid is yours?"

My gaze snaps to Josh's and I can tell he's not trying to yank my chain.

"Shit man, she goes off the Pill without telling you. You don't know what else she might not be telling you."

Yesterday when he'd asked the same thing, I'd been ready to beat the crap out of him. In light of everything, today I really have to consider it. Because today I can't say I know my girlfriend well enough to say she wouldn't get knocked up on purpose, so I sure as hell can't say I know her well enough to know whether she'd ever cheat on me. What if she had been cheating on me? It's not as if she'd tell me. She'd keep me in the dark the same way she'd have kept me in the dark about going off birth control.

"Fuck, I don't know. She says it's mine but what the hell do I know." What I do know is that Paige is more than capable of lying about some pretty big-ass things.

"Well before you do anything, I'd get a paternity test. You sure as hell don't want to drop out of Warwick for a kid that's not yours. And with a kid, you're going to be on the hook for child support until the kid's at least eighteen."

As pissed as I am right now, I can't bring myself to believe that Paige cheated on me. I've seen her around what's his face and I never saw anything there. If he's hung up on her, he's done a pretty good job of hiding it and if she has a thing for him, well she sure as hell fooled me.

No, I don't believe it. But it won't hurt to have a paternity test just in case I'm wrong. And it's obvious I've been wrong before when it comes to her. Wrong on a scale that will cost me for the rest of my life.

"Don't be a chump. Get a paternity test," Josh reiterates in a hard voice as if he takes my silence for me wavering.

"Right, I gotcha. I'll ask for a paternity test," I say tersely.

"Don't ask for one, you moron, demand one."

I scowl at him. "You know what I mean."

He meets my glare head-on, his own expression grim. "No I don't. Your girlfriend has you wrapped around her finger. Which is exactly how you found yourself in this situation in the first place."

"Right, like I need this shit from you now," I say, pushing the chair back and standing. I'm outta here.

"Jesus, Mitch, calm down. Sit your ass down. I'm on your side or are you forgetting that?" Josh grabs my arm, his hold on it strong.

"It sure as hell doesn't sound that way." I jerk my arm free but I make no attempt to leave.

"Is this how you're going to act when you don't like what you hear? You know what I'm saying is the truth," he reasons, not sounding so much the know-it-all asshole anymore.

I drop back down onto the chair and he relaxes back into his, but his expression is uncommonly stern and rigid. "Face it man, she wanted to tie you down. Females only go off their birth control for one reason and that's to get pregnant. She set out to trap you. Classic female trying to hold on to a guy. But for God's sake, think really hard about what you're going to do, even if the kid is yours. Don't let this chick ruin your fuckin' life."

I shake my head, weary and defeated. "Yeah, well, it's too late for that."

# Chapter Six

Paige

It's been two days since the big blow up with Mitch. He hasn't called or stopped by. I've called him twice and both times it went directly into voicemail. And honestly that's something I didn't expect. Even when we've fought in the past, he's never turned off his phone or ignored my calls.

But this is no regular fight I had to remind myself. Forgetting to tell him that I'd gone off the Pill turned out to be life-changing.

This whole thing is new territory for me so I didn't feel comfortable leaving a voicemail. I mean what would I say? Do you still hate me?

Should I apologize again and continue to plead my case?

All those options didn't sound right unless I was doing it face-to-face. But it's obvious he's not ready to listen to anything I have to say.

In the meantime, I've basically stayed holed up in the house biding my time and waiting for him to calm down. Erin came by yesterday and patted my back while I blubbered all over her. I told her what happened and she never once said I told you so. Even if she thought it, I'm happy she didn't say it.

She likes Mitch despite—as she says—his unfortunate taste in best friends, whom she claims to hate with a fire of a thousand suns. There's no doubt in her mind that Mitch will come around. She once admitted that she was envious of our relationship, the way he treats me. I remember feeling so puffed up at the compliment.

I'm standing in front of the refrigerator, the cold air scarcely registering on my bare legs and arms, contemplating what I'm going to have for lunch when the doorbell rings.

"I'll get it," my mom shouts from the front hall. My mom is a real estate agent, so she pretty much gets to set her own schedule. I think she's been purposely sticking close to home to keep an eye on me. I can tell she's worried about what's going on with me—the pregnancy—and what's going on with me and Mitch.

My heart feels as if it's pounding five hundred beats a minute when I hear a muffled male voice. I immediately glance at my cell phone, which I'm holding tight in my hand. I haven't let the damn thing out of my sight, jerking every time it buzzes or rings from an incoming message or phone call. I just know Mitch is going to call.

"Paige honey, look who dropped by."

That's when I know it's Mitch. My mom's voice is a mixture of relief and happiness.

Closing the refrigerator door, I hastily run my fingers through my hair and try to look composed as I exit the kitchen, making sure to temper my pace so it doesn't appear as if I've been lounging around the house waiting for him to drop by.

The second I spot our visitor towering over my mom's petite form, everything inside me deflates.

My expression must have given me away so I try to infuse some enthusiasm into my voice. "Trent. Hi." I can tell by the looks on both their faces that I failed by a good mile.

"Maybe I should go out and come back in again?" He glances down at my mom and winks. "You think she was hoping I was someone else?"

"I'm sorry, Trent. I am happy to see you," I insist, pushing aside the acute disappointment sitting heavy on my chest. I walk toward him, straight into his open arms.

I adore Trent. Maybe if I hadn't known him since I was six, I would have fallen hard for him the second I started liking boys that way. Short, dark-hair, light-brown eyes, dimples, and a killer smile, he's a fatal attraction waiting to happen. Fortunately for both of us—and our mothers—he's the older brother I never had.

"Good, I'll let you two catch up. I have a house to show up near Mill's Creek." My mom fishes into her purse and pulls out her keys. "Trent honey, make sure she eats something and don't let her mope around the house."

We wait until my mom leaves before Trent shepherds me into the living room, his hand casually around my shoulder.

"So, you going to tell me what's going on?"

I glance up at him and I know he knows. He didn't just show up here by chance, he's here on a mission. We sit on the couch beside each other.

"Who told you?" I ask. "Your mom or mine?"

He sighs, giving me a tight smile. "Mine."

I nod.

"What's going on with you and Mitch?"

I answer with a humorless laugh. "I don't even know. I haven't heard or seen him in—"

The chime of the doorbell cuts me off and my heart takes off at a gallop. This time I know it's him.

Trent is a vague afterthought as I spring to my feet and hurry off to answer the door. When I wrench it open, Mitch is standing on the other side. He's dressed in faded blue jeans and a light-gray tee. He looks tanned and beautiful, a sight for my sorely deprived eyes. I drink him in first before my gaze settles on the grimness of his features.

"We need to talk," he says.

No hello, no greeting, just that. My heart sinks as I step back to let him in.

I don't realize until Mitch directs his attention behind me that Trent followed me out into the hall. Upon seeing him, Mitch goes still. His gaze darts between us as Trent comes to a halt at my side.

Mitch's expression darkens and something cold and hard enters his eyes.

I have nothing to be guilty about but that doesn't stop my face from going up in flames. "Trent just stopped by to say hi." I couldn't have sounded guiltier had I been caught frantically pulling on my clothes.

Who am I fooling? I know the real reason for my guilt. And it has nothing at all to do with Trent.

"Kingsley," Trent says, acknowledging Mitch with a tip of his chin.

It's not as if Mitch and Trent have ever been the best of friends but they've always been cordial. However, the vibes coming off my boyfriend right now cast them more as bitter enemies. Rivals.

Mitch completely ignores Trent and repeats, "We need to talk. Maybe your boyfriend can come back when I'm gone," he says, sarcasm coating every word.

My jaw goes slack.

No. He. Did. Not.

A ghost of a smile lifts the corner of Trent's mouth but his eyes are narrowed and ice cold.

"It's going to be like that is it? Well, you can believe whatever makes you happy." Turning his attention to me, Trent asks, "You want me to stick around?"

I shake my head vigorously. "No, you go. I'll be fine."

Mitch's jaw twitches and I can practically hear his teeth grinding. "It's fine with me if we discuss this in front of him. I'm guessing he's already heard the good news."

I can see where this could go and I'm not having it. "Thanks for stopping by, Trent." I don't say I'll catch up with him later for fear that will be the beginning of World War III.

Trent holds Mitch's stare as the air pulses with explosive tension. "You do anything to hurt her and I'll—"

"Fuck you!" Mitch growls, taking a marked stepped toward Trent. Suddenly I'm standing between them, my hands on my boyfriend's hard chest.

"Trent, just go," I say in an urgent, panicked voice. Trent is four years older than Mitch and an inch taller. Between the two, I don't know who would win in a fight and I don't want to.

"I'm going. Call if you need me."

Mitch angles his head over his shoulder as he narrowly tracks Trent's exit.

When the door clicks closed, his attention shifts back to me, his gaze dropping to my hand that is still resting lightly on his chest. He steps back as though he can't bear to have me touch him and pins me under his glacial stare.

"Is the baby even mine?"

I gasp, the verbal blow causing a physical pain in my chest. I become lightheaded and for a second I think I'm going to throw up or pass out.

"How can you even ask me that?" I choke out when I've partially recovered from the shock of it. The insult of it.

"You're a liar, Paige. How the hell do I know what else you're lying to me about? All I know is that he's here when I'm not, which gives him a helluva running head start. The whole friend-of-the-family thing could be a convenient cover."

On the heels of the hurt, anger begins to bubble to the surface of my emotions. "You know damn well nothing is going on between us."

"No. No I don't. I only know what you tell me. And we both know what you're word is good for these days."

I don't even know what to say. Right now, he's not someone I can have a calm conversation with. No matter what I say, what I do, he's going to find a way to turn it on me.

"Is this what you came here to talk about? A relationship between me and Trent that only exists in your head?" I ask in a too-calm and level voice. I'm shutting down, closing myself off from him. I feel it.

For some reason, my question seems to piss him off even more. His mouth tightens as he locks his jaw. His nostrils flare as he draws a deep breath. "I want a paternity test."

I'm not sure how I remained standing. His demand levels me.

"Are you serious?" I ask quietly, so much disbelief and grief in my question, I don't recognize my own voice.

Some unknown emotion flickers across his face before it's a cold mask again. No, not as much cold as scathing and contemptuous. "You know, you're a real piece of work. You purposely get knocked up and turn my life ass-backward, and you're insulted when I ask you for a paternity test when it looks like you're screwing the family friend?"

I've never seen Mitch like this. Never. And I never expected to have this kind of wrath directed at me. But I know exactly what he's doing. What he's trying to do.

My spine lengthens as I fold my arms across my chest. "You know this is your baby. You know it." I'm sick and tired of being his punching bag.

"I know shit. And it's obvious I never knew you. Not the real you." By the tone of his voice, I can clearly hear what he thinks of the "real me".

A vital part inside me is slowly dying. "Why don't you just say it, Mitch, instead of pretending it's Trent or anything else? You don't want this baby and now that I'm pregnant, you don't want me."

"Did I ever pretend I wanted to be a father at the age of nineteen? Did you see me jumping for joy when you told me? Let's stop pretending that for one second, you didn't know that I wouldn't be the least happy about this. And while you're at it, stop pretending that you didn't plan this down to the last fuckin' detail. You wanted this. You wanted me tied to you for the rest of my godforsaken life. Well, I hope you're happy."

I digest it. I digest every single word he spits at me. When I blink, in the milliseconds before my vision is filled with his face, his expression, the contempt and loathing there is burned onto the back of my lids. I know every time I close my eyes, that's what I'll see.

"Get out," I say softly, abruptly dropping my hands to my sides and clenching them into tight fists.

His eyebrows gather over the bridge of his nose and he stares at me as if I'm nuts.

I say it again. No, I scream it. "Get out!"

Surprise sets him back for a few seconds and he falls silent.

"You don't want this baby, fine. I don't need you. I'll manage fine without you. You won't need a paternity test because I'm not going to ask you for a thing. I don't want a fuckin' dime of your money. You don't want this baby? Good, because I don't want you."

I march past him on wobbly legs—at least that's how they feel. I whip open the door and turn to face him. I don't care that tears are streaming down my face or that my throat feels sandpaper-raw. "You don't want to be a father, well consider this your out. Now get out."

I make myself look him in the eye when I speak to him. And in the ensuing silence, I pray he'll say something—anything that will take back some of the horrible things he said to me.

But he doesn't. With no more than a hard stare, he mutters something unintelligible under his breath and stalks past me. When he's gone, I stand with my back against the door breathing deeply. Soon my breathing is coming in panty little gasps and then hiccups. Slowly, I sink down until my butt hits the floor. By then, I'm sobbing uncontrollably, my heart broken beyond repair.

# Chapter Seven

I don't know how I survived the next week. I kept thinking Mitch would call, that he would come by and apologize.

Instead there was nothing. Not a call or a text. Not a single word.

My mom has played Switzerland since I told her about our latest drama. Although it looks like Mitch has pretty much abandoned me—something I'm still trying to wrap my head around—she hasn't said a bad word about him. I think she figured out that I'm the one who screwed up. I'm just relieved she hasn't come right out and asked me. I don't know, maybe she thinks what's the point in dredging up something we can't change.

Erin, on the other hand, cursed up a blue streak; Mitch being on the receiving end of that, of course. She gets why he's angry but essentially accusing me of cheating went over the line as far as she's concerned. I'm pretty sure there's a story behind it—one she won't talk about—but the whole paternity test thing is definitely one of her triggers.

Today makes it three weeks since the big blow up and I can't take the waiting anymore. I can't stand not knowing what he's thinking. Are we truly over?

Which is why I'm here, standing nervously in front of his door. A queasy stomach doesn't help my nerves any, but I managed to down six crackers this morning and a cup of hot chocolate. I pray my breakfast won't make a reappearance.

My heart is hammering in my throat upon hearing footsteps and then the slight rattle of the knob before the door opens.

I'm rendered speechless at the sight of Mitch's sister. We both stare at one another in surprise.

Diane's hair is blonder than her brother's, her eyes are a darker shade of green, but the siblings share a very strong resemblance. At five foot nine in her stocking feet, I still have to look up at her when I'm wearing my three-inch heels. In my flat leather flip-flops, it's a far way up.

"Hi, Paige. I'm—I mean this is a surprise."

Is it?

I wonder what Mitch has told her. Does she know about the baby?

"Hi," I say weakly. "Is Mitch home?" His car isn't parked in the driveway but sometimes he parks it in the three-car garage.

Diane's brow lightly crinkles as she continues to stare at me, looking more confused than ever.

"Sweetie, Mitch went back to New York two weeks ago. I thought you knew," she says, her tone full of sympathy.

Gone.

Mitch went back to New York.

"Oh. No, I didn't know. I-I—we haven't spoken in a couple weeks." I sound dazed, not quite with it.

Diane reaches out to touch my arm. "Why don't you come in and sit down?" she asks gently as if realizing what the news has done to me.

I shake my head. I don't want to sit down. I just want to go home to my room and curl up on my bed until this whole thing is over.

"No, I'm fine. I didn't think he was going back so soon," I say in a pathetic attempt to save face.

She awkwardly withdraws her arm. "He told me you guys broke up. He wouldn't tell me what happened, but I want you to know that I'm always here if you want to talk."

He told me you guys broke up.

Wow, I guess that answers my question. We're done. I'm pregnant and he's gone.

I force a smile that challenges my facial muscles. "Thanks, Diane, I appreciate the offer."

By the expression on her face, I can tell she knows I'll never take her up on it. You don't break up with someone and keep in contact with their closest relative. And the baby—well if he didn't see fit to tell her about it, I'm not going to.

"Are you sure you don't—"

I'm shaking my head before she can finish. "I've got to go. Thanks for—for everything," I mumble. With that, I turn and scamper down the stairs.

Once I'm in my car, my hands grip the steering wheel so tightly, it's practically cutting off the blood flow to my fingers. I let out a ragged breath that comes out sounding closer to a sob.

I peek a glance up at Diane, who is still standing in the doorway. Worry creases her forehead, narrows her eyes and tightens her mouth. It's the same way my mom's been watching me lately when she doesn't think I'm looking.

I go into automatic pilot and drive home. I won't let myself cry. Not here. Not now.

By the time I park and hop out of the car, my stomach is lurching like crazy. I make a mad dash to the front door, fumble with the keys and unlock the door on the first try.

I'm just able to make it to the bathroom near the kitchen before my stomach gives up my breakfast.

* * *

Mitch

"You want to tell me what is going on, Mitch?"

My sister's voice is sharp and reproachful. I knew I shouldn't have picked up the phone. My gut tells me it has something to do with Paige.

"What're you talking about?" I mutter, eyes closed and the stale taste of alcohol in my mouth. That and my pounding head remind me how I spent the previous night. Drinking until I could barely stand.

"Paige was just here...looking for you."

My sister's statement causes the pain in my head to explode, spreading to every other part of my body. I don't want to think about Paige. Have been trying like hell not to think of her since I came back to New York.

I can't trust her. She's a liar. A manipulator. She's as selfish as they come.

These are the things I have to remind myself constantly. I don't want to remember the look on her face the last time I saw her. I'm not the one who should feel guilty. She should.

"She didn't even know you'd gone back to New York," Diane says when I don't respond.

"We're not going out anymore. She didn't need to know." God, it hurts to talk. I slowly pull myself up on my bed, my head protesting every inch of the way.

"Are you going to tell me what happened between you two?"

Despite the sixteen-year age gap between us, my sister and I have always been close. Everyone used to say that was because she's the only one in the house who had the energy to keep up with me. She says it's because she always wanted a younger brother. Unfortunately, sometimes that age difference makes her think she can treat me like the boy she used to carry around on her hip.

Swinging my legs to the floor, I inform her, "No, because it's none of your business."

There's a moment of silence and then a long sigh. "Mitch, she looked—"

I close my eyes. "Stay out of it, Diane," I growl. I don't want to know how she looked. It's been hard enough trying not to think about her. Hard enough to get the image of her out of my head.

"Look, I've gotta get going. I'll talk to you later." I don't give her a chance to respond, I simply end the call.

I toss my cell onto the bed and clasp my head in my hands. It continues its relentless pounding. My throat closes up until it's almost impossible to swallow.

I think about Paige. I think about the baby.

You don't even know for sure it's yours, the sane voice in my head cautions.

Yeah you do, asshole. The other voice is just there to fuck with me. I hate that voice. It knows shit about anything and if I listen to it, I'm doomed.

My cell vibrates beside me and my only thought is that it's my sister calling back. And she'll keep calling and calling until I answer. I snatch it up and blindly answer it. "Diane, I'm not in the mood."

"Yeah, no shit. Sounds like you tied one over last night."

My shoulders slump, losing some of their tension. It's Josh.

"Your sister giving you a hard time?"

"When isn't she?" I reply.

"So how's it going?"

"It's going."

"Heard from Paige?"

"We're done. Why would I hear from her?"

Josh lets out an audible breath as if he's exasperated with me. Well he can join the club. "You're seriously not going to get the test?"

"I already told you what she said to that." Now he's pissing me off.

"You know there's a good chance the kid is yours, right?"

"Whatever." The baby isn't here. It's not real, and I'm not going to let myself think about what's going to happen down the road. I won't. It'll just drive me crazy.

Anyway, she's the one who told me to go. And after what she did, she should damn well understand why I want a paternity test.

"Does your sister know?" Josh asks. He thinks I should have told Diane before I flew back to New York.

"No."

"When are you planning on telling her?"

"If Paige wants to tell her, she can. I'm not saying anything to her until I know for sure it's mine."

There's a long pause and I imagine Josh is rolling his eyes. This isn't the first time we've had this conversation, and I'm sure it won't be the last.

"What's your problem? You're the one who first said the baby might not even be mine. Now you're acting like you ran the damn test yourself and that the kid is mine." He's my best friend. Isn't he supposed to be on my side?

"Yeah, but you're not even going to have the test done. I thought you'd at least do that. What if the kid is yours?"

"You know what, let me deal with this my way, alright? The last time I took your advice, she kicked me out of her house," I snap.

What is this, pile-on-the-guilt day for Mitch?

"Cool. You do that," he replies curtly.

This time I turn my phone off when Josh hangs up on me.

# Chapter Eight

Paige

I didn't know four months could pass so slowly. A snail's pace would be the apt term. I guess that's how it feels when you're pregnant. You watch the clock all the time.

It took me three months to stop expecting to hear from Mitch. School started back over a month ago so I'm sure he's right back in the swing of things. It's obvious he's doesn't care about me...or the baby.

I forcefully push those thoughts out of my mind as I drop my book bag at the front door, thankful it's the tail end of a long day. Monday and Wednesdays are killers. I have four classes. The first class starts at 8:05 in the morning, and the last one isn't over until after five.

It was weird going back to college pregnant, especially now that I'm showing. There's no hiding it behind roomy blouses or thick sweaters. The bump is small but it's prominent as I'm not a big girl to begin with. Although if you ask my mom and Erin, you can't tell I'm pregnant from behind. Is that supposed to make me feel better?

Like most commuters, I haven't made that many friends at the community college but the few I talk to and eat lunch with have been really supportive. Julie and Allison know all about Mitch. They only met him once and, reacting to him the way most girls do, declared him swoon-worthy. Julie teasingly told me I was one lucky bitch. Not so lucky now. We don't talk about him anymore.

Tonight, my mom won't be home until late. She has two showings and then she's going out to dinner with Randy, which means I'm on my own for dinner. That's okay. These days, I love having the house to myself a couple days a week.

I head to the kitchen and ponder what I'm going to do with the chicken I'd taken out this morning when the doorbell rings.

My stomach does that flippity-flop thing and my heart speeds up. Logically, I know it's not him. It's not. But I can't help the way my body reacts to unexpected phone calls and doorbells. Or a car pulling into my driveway when both Mom and I are home. I hate the way it reacts.

I turn and trudge back to answer the door. It's probably some guy selling Kirby vacuum cleaners.

No, it's not a sales guy nor is it Mitch, but it's as close to my ex as it's probably ever going to get.

"Diane." Her name leaves my mouth on a puff of air.

But she's not staring at me—at least not at my face. Her eyes are glued to my bump. If I look surprised to see her, she's beyond shocked to see me in my condition.

Mitch never told her. That much she's just confirmed.

Her eyes are enormous in her oval face when her gaze snaps to mine. "You-you're pregnant," she stammers. Poor thing. I feel sorry for her. It has to be hard finding out this way.

I step back and open the door farther. "Would you like to come in?"

Without replying, she enters the foyer, her gaze repeatedly darting from my face to my bump.

"Mitch didn't say anything?"

Lips parted, she shakes her head. Clearly she's in shock. "It's his baby," she finally utters.

I want to laugh. Mitch doubts me but his sister knows without having to ask. I staunch the deep well of hurt I've learned to bury.

She pushes back her shoulders and emits a heavy sigh. "I came to ask you if you knew what is going on with Mitch. His coach called last week to inform me that his grades are slipping and he's been missing practice. If this continues, he's going to have to drop him from the team. He wanted me to talk to him. I've tried but I can't get anything out of him." Again, her eyes go to my stomach. "Since this started after you guys broke up, I thought I could get some information from you. I thought maybe you could talk to him... But now I see what's going on with him."

The baby kicks just then. My hand instinctively goes to the place on my stomach.

Alarm flares in Diane's eyes and I smile wanly. "It's okay. She's just practicing for the soccer game later tonight."

"She? It's a girl?" she asks and it's almost painful to witness the yearning in her eyes.

I nod and continue to rub the spot where my baby is exercising her kicking leg. For a second, Diane looks dazed. It appears to take a bit of effort for her to wrench her gaze from my baby bump and back up to my face.

"I-I-I don't know what to say."

"It's okay. You don't have to say anything," I assure her. I don't expect her to congratulate me or pretend to be happy. This is her baby brother a year out of high school having a baby. I get that.

"I don't understand. Why isn't Mitch here? Why aren't you two together anymore?"

Good question.

But what do I tell her? I mean I like Diane a lot but we're not that close. I decide to keep it simple and be as honest as the circumstances warrant. "Mitch blames me for this." I cradle my stomach protectively with both hands. "He thinks I got pregnant on purpose."

I wait for Diane to ask the obvious question.

"He's going to be a father. He doesn't have a choice," she says instead, her tone obstinate and firm.

"No. No," I state adamantly. "I don't want him here if he doesn't want to be here. And he's made it obvious that he doesn't want to be a father to this baby. Honestly, I'll be fine. My mom is going to help me so I'll be fine."

A look of hurt crosses Diane's face. "This baby is m-my niece. She has cousins and an uncle who are going to want to be a part of her life even if Mitch doesn't."

I'm immediately hit by a pang of remorse at how thoughtless I must have sounded. "Diane, I didn't mean that I don't want you—"

"Paige, I will be here for you," she says, and gently brushes my hair over my right shoulder. "I want to be part of my niece's life. And I want to do whatever I can to help you. Babies aren't cheap and at the very least, you're going to need some financial assistance."

My first instinct is to turn her down. My baby isn't her problem. But then I think of my mom and how much having this baby is going to change her life. She shouldn't have to bear the brunt of her daughter's unplanned pregnancy alone.

It's not as if this is Randy—who's already offered to help out financially—this is the father's family. And I didn't make this baby by myself.

"Thank you," I whisper, grateful for the offer.

Dropping her hand to her side, Diane smiles. We stand there awkwardly for another few moments.

"Well, I don't want to keep you." She moves her purse to her other shoulder.

I nod and give her a small smile and hope it somehow conveys the depth of my appreciation. I follow her back to the door. Before she leaves and I chicken out, I ask, "Are you going to tell Mitch you saw me? That you know?"

Of course she is. How could she not? But something in me can't help but ask it anyway.

"He's my brother, Paige," Diane says softly, almost sadly.

"Right," I respond with a hard nod.

She pauses. "When is the baby due?"

"December sixteenth."

Her eyebrows go up and a genuine smile appears on her face. "A Christmas baby."

I give a little laugh. "Yep."

"Okay then, I'll be in touch."

We share a look, another smile and then she's gone. After she pulls out of the driveway, I return her wave and close the door. I internally brace myself for what's coming next.

And do you know what came next? What happened when Mitch's sister confronted him about the baby?

Nothing.

Absolutely nothing.

# Chapter Nine

Mitch

If things keep going the way they've been, you're going to find yourself on academic probation.

I walk out of the meeting with that warning echoing in my head as I head to the locker room. I'm failing three of my five classes this semester and managing barely passing grades in the other two. But then that's bound to happen when you hardly ever go to class.

Last year, the prospect of flunking out of school was inconceivable. This year, it doesn't bother me nearly as much as it should. Getting kicked off the football team, however, does. It's literally the only thing I care about right now. If I lose football, I may as well drop out of college. What would be the point in staying?

And then where would I go? Home? These days my sister and I aren't exactly seeing eye-to-eye.

Diane saw Paige at the beginning of September, which is when I got "the call". She totally laid into me. She chided, cajoled, and then when that didn't work, she finally exploded, berating me for over an hour. I'd been expecting "the speech" for a couple months so I was fully prepared for the guilt trip she was going to try to lay at my door.

I told her to stay out of it, which only proved to infuriate her more. When she demanded to know what happened between Paige and me and I responded, "Goodbye, Diane. I'm hanging up now," she stopped talking to me. That lasted three weeks.

When she started calling me again, it was either to try to guilt me into coming home and "owning up to my responsibilities" or to tell me how disappointed she was in me. She asked me what happened to me, no doubt convinced that an alien had taken over my body.

I've fielded about a dozen calls from her since. She's learned that the second she brings up Paige or the baby, I'm gone.

Now when she calls, she asks about school and I lie and tell her everything is going fine. I can only imagine what she'd do if I told her my 3.5 GPA had fallen a whole grade point in the span of one semester. Yeah, that would go over well.

I ask about Tess and Doug and get off the phone soon after that. The key to avoiding an argument is to keep the conversation short because if I let it go on too long it will invariably end up on Paige and talking about Paige is a deal breaker. A conversation ender. I'm not going there. And Diane knows it. But that doesn't stop her. Nope, my sister is a bulldog when it comes to my ex and the baby.

It's ten days before Paige's due date and I haven't heard from my sister in almost a month. A coincidence? Maybe. Who knows.

I shake my head, annoyed that I can't get the looming date out of my head.

When I turn the corner, I'm surprised to see Zach Pearson, our starting quarterback, standing outside the locker room. He's wearing a heavy leather football jacket, black jeans, and has his backpack slung over his shoulder. He's dressed and ready to go so what's he still doing here? Coach Brighton kept me in his office for forty-five minutes after practice. I was positive all the guys would be gone by now.

"What are you still doing here?" I ask as I approach.

"Waiting for you," he replies, his expression open, friendly. Pearson's a good guy. We've been hanging out together a lot more since my roommate, Steve, started dating his girlfriend's best friend four months ago. Before that, we mostly hung out when the team was on the road. I like him but we're not tight, if you know what I mean.

I halt in front of him. "For what?"

With a jerk of his head toward the door, he says, "I'll tell you when you're done."

"What, you're going to wait while I shower?" I ask with a lift of an eyebrow. What, did the coach tell him about my plummeting grades?

Pearson laughs. "Just don't take an hour. I'm seeing Olivia tonight."

From what I hear, he sees Olivia almost every night, so nothing new there.

Shrugging, I shoulder my way into the locker room.

Fifteen minutes later, hair still damp from being towel dried, I exit the locker room to find Pearson leaned up against the wall, his cell pressed to his ear. The second he spots me, he says, "Listen, Liv, I gotta run. I'll see you in a few." He laughs softly at something she says, and replies, "I'm going to hold you to that."

Here's the other thing I know about our fearless quarterback, he's totally gone over his girlfriend, just like I used to be over Paige.

Paige.

Fuck. I wish my mind had a steel trapdoor that worked.

"So you gonna tell me what's this all about? Coach say something to you?" I ask as he crosses the hall toward me.

Shoving his cell in his coat pocket, Pearson matches my strides as we walk shoulder-to-shoulder toward the exit.

"Olivia tells me you're not going home during the break," he says, angling his head toward me.

Olivia is in my poly-sci class this semester. I got to know her through Pearson and when we were shooting the breeze in class last week, I let it slip that I wasn't going home for Christmas.

"Yeah, it's not a big deal."

"April says your roommate is going on some kind of family-reunion cruise," Pearson says, continuing to dig.

I glance over at him as we walk down the short hallway that leads to the parking lot. "Yeah." I have a feeling I know where the conversation is going.

"Why don't you come home with me? My mom's complaining she won't have enough people to bake and cook for now that my brother's bailed on us."

I smile faintly to myself. More reflex than anything else. "Nah, man. That's alright."

Christ, does my life ever suck. I'm officially an object of pity.

Pearson pushes open the door and a shock of cold air hits my face. I hunch my shoulder against the wind and follow him out into the winter night. There's a couple of inches of packed snow on the ground but at least it's not snowing and the roads are clear. At six, it's already dark, but the parking lot is well-lit and practically vacant, save mine and a few other cars, and Pearson's truck.

"You're coming home with me."

I shake my head. "I'm good right here."

My cell rings before Pearson can press the issue. Shoving my hand into my coat pocket, I shoot a quick glance at the screen and my heart roars to a stop.

Diane.

I halt in my tracks and hold up my finger to Pearson, to give me a minute. He nods and continues walking. I turn my back to him.

The second I press the phone to my ear, I hear my sister's breathless, "Paige is having the baby." There's a pause and my heart is now literally in my throat, constricting my speech. "I thought you might want to know."

I still don't say anything.

I can't. Physically can't. It will probably take me an hour to catch my breath.

I think she's going to say more but with just those words, my sister ends the call and I'm left standing there. Alone. In the cold.

A part of me, the weak part, wants to call her back. It wants to book a flight home this very second. But the other part of me knows that if I start down this road, there will be no coming back. I'll lose everything. More than I've already lost.

My parents were here one day and gone by the time I woke up the next morning. Some idiot too stupid and thoughtless to know he was too drunk to get behind the wheel of a car took their lives and irrevocably changed mine.

After they died, I had to go and live with my sister. Not that either of us would have had it any other way, but death has a way of eliminating options. Apparently bringing a life into the world has a way of doing that too. Playing football and going to Warwick were the choices I made.

Paige deliberately took that away from me.

So before I weaken and do something I'll regret later, I turn and call out to Pearson, who is taking his time getting into his truck, his gaze on me.

I jog slowly toward him, my heart thundering in my throat, until I'm standing beside his truck. "When do we leave?" I ask.

Pearson smiles, looking pleased. "We're heading out Friday."

"Cool." I pause. "And hey, thanks."

"Don't thank me. You're doing me a favor."

No, he's doing me the favor because I know if I stay, I'll end up caving and going home—and I'll probably never come back.

* * *

Paige

I'm gripping Erin's hand so hard she's probably lost all feeling in it. But she doesn't complain, she's my rock and my labor coach.

Six weeks of Lamaze classes didn't adequately prepare me for the magnitude of pain that is childbirth. And I thought menstrual cramps were their own form of torture. They have nothing on the crippling pain that takes over my body with each contraction.

I'd vowed I wouldn't cry or screech and wail like some of the women I'd seen in movies and in childbirth videos but I can't hold back the tears and pained whimpers.

It hurts. Oh God, it hurts.

"Oh Paige, you're doing so good."

I don't have the strength or will to lift my head the couple inches required to look into Erin's face. It's enough that she's here holding my hand—or letting me squeeze the life's blood from hers.

"It hurts," I moan piteously as I feel the onset of another contraction tightening like a band around my distended stomach. God, I wish I hadn't been such an idiot and waited so long to tell my mom and Erin I thought I was in labor. By the time they'd gotten me to the hospital, my water had broken and I was already dilated eight centimeters. The emergency room physician told me I was lucky I hadn't given birth in the car.

Five minutes later I was in labor and delivery in the second stages of labor, any possibility of an epidural gone. Nothing I can do now but deal with the pain the best I can.

"Okay, Paige, I'm going to count to ten, then I want you to push." Dressed in standard green scrubs and stationed between my widespread legs at the foot of my bed, Dr. Samuel peers at me over his bifocals and gives an encouraging nod.

I'm hooked up to a machine that monitors my contractions and just as another one peaks, he instructs me to push.

Gripping Erin's hand and the cold, steel railing of the hospital bed, I push with all my might. I rest during the intervals between the contractions, and by rest, I mean panting to catch my breath and moaning to stop myself from screaming.

Thirty minutes later, with my hair matted to my head and sweat rolling down the back of my neck, I give one last push and my baby is out.

"No mistake about it. It's a girl," Dr. Samuel announces from behind his mask. I can hear the smile in his voice.

An excited Erin is allowed to cut the cord before my doctor holds my baby up for me to see. Streaks of blood and mucus cover her and her head is decidedly elongated but she's the most beautiful baby I've ever seen.

Brianna is the name I decided on if the ultrasound was right and it was a girl.

My breath catches in my throat when she starts to cry. Tears of relief and joy begin to fall in earnest now that I know she's all right.

Dr. Samuel is still working on me—delivery not quite over—when the nurse whisks my baby away to get her cleaned up, weighed and foot-printed.

First I want to hold her and then I'll need the day's worth of sleep my body's demanding. Having a baby is exhausting work.

"Paige, she's beautiful."

My head flops wearily to my right as Erin's voice draws my attention back to her.

She looks fresh-faced and pretty in her scrubs, her long hair in a neat ponytail. She makes me feel dumpy and in sore need of a shower. It's a good thing I love her to death.

"Thank you," I say through parched lips.

"No, thank you for letting me share this with you, I'm well aware how fierce the competition was for this job." Despite her teasing words, her voice is thick with emotion.

"Trent never stood a chance against you." I'd been flattered he'd volunteered but our friendship had its limits, which in this case ended at the delivery room door.

Erin and I share a moment, a tender smile that cements our friendship for life. She stays with me while the doctor takes care of the afterbirth and stitches me up—yes, an episiotomy was required. By the time he's finished, the nurse returns with my swaddled baby girl, and places her in my waiting arms.

She is beautiful. Even more so now that she's all cleaned up. I stare at her in awe, unable to believe she came out of me. I gingerly touch the dark tuff of hair on her head. It's silky and soft. Her eyes are closed so I don't know the color of her eyes. I think she kind of looks like me when I was born. That's definitely my hair.

I didn't think I could possibly love her more than I did when I was carrying her but holding her now, drinking in the sight of her, that love expands exponentially. It's elastic. It's infinite.

Fifteen minutes later, as the nurse is helping me out of the wheelchair and into my bed, my mom and Diane burst into the room. And I do mean burst. Self-preservation has Erin immediately surrendering Brianna to her grandmother's outstretched arms. Diane is forced to bide her time to get her hands on her niece.

Wrenching her gaze from her granddaughter, my mom beams at me. "How's my baby?"

She means me.

"Sleepy. Happy. Thankful. In love," I reply quietly.

"Of course you are," she replies, her smile brimming with pride and love as she looks at me. "Oh, Rita and Trent are on their way. They should be here in a few minutes," she says, returning her attention to her granddaughter.

Rita is Trent's mom and they'd been waiting all week for the call. I can't wait for them to meet my daughter.

Oh my God, I have a daughter.

Mitch and I have a daughter.

A ball of emotion forms in my throat making it hard to swallow. Tears sting the backs of my eyes and I blink rapidly to keep them at bay. I'm allowed tears of happiness not sorrow and right now both are battling for supremacy.

When I'm able to focus my gaze, Diane is staring directly at me. It's as if she knows I'm thinking about Mitch and knows what I want but am afraid to ask her.

She comes to my side, concern marring the joy and happiness on her face.

"She's beautiful." There's a tinge of sorrow in her voice.

"She is," I agree, my voice choked.

"You're going to be a wonderful mother," she says, repeating what she's been telling me for months.

"I hope so." I try to smile and tamp down the urge to ask her about Mitch.

Does he know? Is he coming? Until today, I didn't realize how much I secretly nursed that hope.

However, I must be as transparent as glass because her green eyes are all sympathy and regret when she whispers to me in a hushed tone, "I called and I told him you were having the baby."

My breath falters and my heart slams against my ribcage. After a handful of seconds, I force myself to breathe as pain, excruciating in its intensity, ravages my insides.

I hate myself for asking, but I know she won't give me the answer unless I do. "What did he say?"

Tears glass her eyes. Tears of pity.

Slowly she shakes her head, her wavy hair a soft whisper on her cream blouse.

If I cry now, I will turn what should be one of the happiest moments in my life into something sad and sorrowful.

I glance around the room and take in the women in my life, the women who mean the most to me. And then I look at the love of my life, my daughter, and I know I need to be strong for her. I need to be strong for me.

I heave a breath, and grasp Diane's hand with mine. "That's okay. I'll be fine. Brianna and I will be fine."

Diane draws a shuddering breath as she leans down and hugs me, mindful of the intravenous tube still in my right arm. "Of course you will, honey. And I will always be here for you. Whatever you need. Please don't ever forget that."

"I won't."

After a prolonged hug, which is discreetly being observed by my mom and best friend, Diane releases me and declares, "It seems I'm going to have to wrestle my niece from your mother."

Her announcement draws the expected laughs. My mother then reluctantly relinquishes her granddaughter to Diane and makes a beeline to my side.

"You okay, sweetie?" she asks, gently cupping my cheek.

All I can do is nod, my words choked by threatening tears.

"I'm here for you, sweetie. I'm here for you."

Brianna's cries save me from breaking down into ugly sobs.

"I know honey," Diane says, lovingly addressing her niece as she rounds the bed and brings her to me. "You want your mama."

After I have my daughter back in my arms and feel her tiny body against mine, I'm again overwhelmed by a love so profound, I give up the fight and allow the tears to fall. It is what it is, a mixture of joy and pain.

Brianna is it. She means everything to me. And the two of us, we are going to make it together. Without Mitch.

As I gaze down at my beautiful baby girl, her tiny little hand holding both my finger and my heart in hers, I know that no matter how much it hurts, I have to leave the past behind.

Mitch is my past.

Brianna is my future.

THE END

 Thank you for reading THE TRAP

I hope you enjoyed the beginning of Paige and Mitch's romance.

I hope you'll consider leaving a review.

To receive news on upcoming releases

click here to sign up for Beverley Kendall's Newsletter

***

**  
**

**New Adult Romances**

_Trapped_ series

**  
**

Prequel - **THE TRAP** (Paige & Mitch)

**  
**

Book #1 - **TRAPPED** (Paige & Mitch's HEA)

**  
**

Book #1 - **TRAPPED Expanded Edition** (Includes **The Trap** )

Bonus Short -  **TRAPPED At Christmas** (Paige & Mitch)

Book #2 -  **PLAYED** (Erin & Josh)

TBA

**  
**

**  
**

**Connecting series**

_Unforgettable You_

Book #1 -  ONLY FOR YOU (Olivia & Zach)

Book #2 -  ALL OVER YOU (Rebecca & Scott)

Book #3 -  ALWAYS BEEN YOU (April & Troy)

**  
**

Book #4 -  **FOREVER WITH YOU** (Emily & Graham)

TBA

* * *

**Historical Romances**

**  
**

The Elusive Lords series in chronological order

SINFUL SURRENDER (James & Missy)

A TASTE OF DESIRE (Thomas & Amelia)

ALL'S FAIR IN LOVE & SEDUCTION (enovella)

(Derek & Elizabeth)

AN HEIR OF DECEPTION (Alex & Charlotte)

Connecting series

The Temptresses in chronological order

TWICE THE TEMPTATION (Lucas & Catherine)

* * *

On the following pages, please enjoy an excerpt of TRAPPED

# TRAPPED

My life has turned out to be such a cliché. And not in a good way.

It's not exactly Sixteen and Pregnant, but at eighteen my only advantage is a high school diploma. And if that's not enough, the father—and I use that term loosely—couldn't have hightailed it out of my life fast enough.

I thought I really knew him. Unfortunately, my boyfriend of three years transformed from Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Hyde once he realized his carefree, childless days would be coming to an end.

I'm over him now though. The real love of my life is chubby, has more gum than teeth, and stands a little over two feet tall. She may not have been planned but I've never regretted having her. She's the center of my world. A world that's turned upside when Mitch returns ready to earn the love and trust of the child he'd abandoned before birth.

Letting him into my daughter's life is one thing but letting him back into mine isn't going to happen. Ever.

Now if only I can get my heart to heed the lessons of the past.

# Chapter One

Mitch

Who the hell is knocking on my door?

I angle my head to check the time on the cable box. It's 10:50 p.m, too late for visitors and too early for Steve to be back from his date with April.

Shannon doesn't stop kissing me so I can only assume that either she didn't hear the knock or is ignoring the interruption and wants me to do the same.

I try to get back into the kiss but give up when whoever's on the other side of the door refuses to go away, the knocks sharper, harder, more impatient sounding.

Fuck.

I gently push Shannon away and off my lap. "I got to get that," I mumble, two beers away from being officially drunk, a condition I'm probably a little too familiar with for my own good. I'm a responsible drunk though. I never drink and drive.

"Who is it?" she asks, her blue eyes dulled by her own alcohol consumption.

"I don't know," I grunt and push to my feet.

I leave her on the couch pouting. This is the second time we've hung out. No sex yet. Thought I'd seal the deal tonight.

Another knock has me impatiently yanking open the door.

Oh, for fuck's sake!

I catch a glimpse of my sister just before she shoves past me and into the apartment.

And here I'd half convinced myself that Steve must have lost his keys.

"Diane, what the hell?" I absently push the door shut before turning to face her. But she's still on the move, marching purposefully toward the living room.

What is she doing here?

Did something happen to Paige or the baby?

No, Diane's too pissed for that, I quickly conclude, my momentary panic subsiding.

She screeches to a halt when she sees Shannon and takes in the state of her undress. I thank God we'd just started fooling around and that my date's still in her bra and jeans.

Whipping around, Diane glares at me. "Is she the reason you're not coming home this time?" she demands, gesturing toward Shannon.

Slow to react, Shannon frantically begins to button her blouse. "Mitch, who is she?"

"I am his sister," Diane replies tersely, turning her glare back on Shannon.

"What are you doing here?" I ask pointedly.

Diane's head jerks in my direction, her gaze narrowing until her eyes are slitted.

"You haven't been home in over a year and you're asking me what I'm doing here?" She pauses and does that thing with her hands—palms down, fingers splayed at her sides—when she's trying to control her emotions. After exhaling a deep breath, she says calmly, "Look, you may want to ask your date to leave because I'm pretty sure you're not going to want her to hear what I have to say."

My sister should know better than to throw out a challenge like that, especially when I've been drinking. "No, say whatever you have to say so I can get on with my date."

Diane's expression darkens ominously. "Fine," she snaps. "Grow up, Mitch and come home. I don't care how you feel about Paige anymore, but you have a daughter who needs her father."

Shannon lets out a gasp. "You have a kid?" she squeaks.

Bowing my head, I close my eyes and squeeze the bridge of my nose between my fingers.

Hell, what did I expect? The date is officially over. It's time to call it a night.

It doesn't take me long to see Shannon home. Her building is within walking distance of mine. Of course she presses me about my kid. My answer is short and doesn't encourage further conversation. Yeah, I have a baby, a daughter.

The truth is, I don't know much more than that. I figured the less I know, the easier it would be to deal with everything. Guess what? Not by a long shot. Not even alcohol can make me forget.

By the time I get back to my apartment, my sister seems to have lost some of her anger. I wish she hadn't. It's easier to hold on to mine when I'm faced with hers.

"Sit," she orders when I walk into the living room. I hate that she looks sad, that she looks like she's been crying. Or maybe she's just tired.

Without arguing, I take a seat a couple of feet from her on the couch. She immediately angles her body toward me.

For several long beats, she simply stares at me, her expression pained. Right now sobriety is a ruthless monster I don't want to face but I don't have a choice anymore. My buzz is long gone and the life I've tried to ignore the past year, descends down on me like a sledgehammer.

"Mitch, I love you."

Fuck fuck fuck. I swallow hard. This is the last thing I want to hear. I don't want her to be kind. I don't want her to love me. Not when most days I can barely stand being in my own skin.

"Diane, don't," I say in a voice that's not my own.

She scoots closer to me, grabbing my hand in hers. "No listen to me. I love you too much to watch you self-destruct. Right now you're throwing your life away with both hands and I can't stand by and watch you do that." Reaching out with her free hand, she brushes my hair from my forehead like she used to do when I was a kid. "Please come home—at least for the summer. I know you don't want to admit it but you need your family and we need you. Brianna needs you."

There's no way to describe how I feel at that moment. It's not a hurt. It's not an ache. It cuts deeper than that. And buried beneath all of it is a longing I've refused to acknowledge for over a year. For the past seven months.

I have a daughter. A daughter I've never seen, never touched and never held. When the reality of that sinks in, it hits and it hits hard.

I clear my throat. "Di—"

"Don't give me an answer now. Just think about it. Plus," she coaxes lightly after a pause, "the kids miss their uncle Mitch."

Nothing like a whole lotta guilt and a bit of emotional blackmail to make me feel like shit. Not that I don't deserve it.

"I miss them too." No lie. As much as they can sometimes drive me crazy, I never knew until this past year how empty my life would feel without them.

Shit, I miss all of them, even my brother-in-law Dan.

Just don't ask me about Paige. I don't want to think about her. She's the reason for all this...crap. The reason for the train wreck that is my life.

During the silence that falls, Diane puts her arms around me and pulls me close. After a moment's hesitation, I return her embrace. Any anger I felt toward her is long gone. She's the one constant in my life. The one person I can always count on.

Before releasing me, she gives me a kiss on the cheek. "You need a shave," she says, affectionately running her hand over my bristled jaw.

"Yes, Mom," I reply, all mock solemnity.

"Think about what I said," she instructs softly.

All I can do is nod.

She smiles. "Good."

I follow her when she rises to her feet.

"Let me get out of your hair. I've got to catch an early flight home tomorrow."

"Where are you staying?" I'd offer to sleep on the couch and have her take my room but my sister would never accept. It has something to do with sleeping in an apartment inhabited by college guys.

"I booked a room for the night at a hotel near the airport."

As I thought. "I'll walk you to your car."

"No, I'll be fine. I'm a big girl. You, on the other hand, look like you could use some shuteye."

"In other words, I look like crap."

Diane laughs. "You could never look like crap. I was actually thinking it looks like you've put on a bit more muscle." Reaching out, she squeezes my biceps. "Been working out?"

Embarrassed, I shrug off her hand. I'm sure as hell not going to tell her it's usually how I pass the time I should be in class. The same classes I'm mostly failing.

"I'm walking you to your car." I say it in a way she knows it's useless to argue with me.

Resigned, she sighs and retrieves her leather purse from the couch. The thing is white like her jeans and sandals, and big enough to be considered luggage.

By the time we get to the gray Mazda she rented, conversation has grounded to a halt. I keep expecting her to tell me about my daughter—Brianna—but beyond some oblique references to me being needed, she doesn't say anything about her. And I'm too much a chickenshit to ask. I want to know and I don't. Guess which one wins out?

At the driver-side door, she reaches up and presses another kiss on my cheek. "I'll call when I get home," she whispers. "And here—" she reaches into her purse and pulls out a manila envelope "—this is for you. There's also something in there from Paige."

After shoving the envelope into my hand, she quickly gets into the car. I then watch in dazed silence as she reverses, beeps the horn, gives me a short wave, and exits the parking lot.

I study the envelope the entire trek back up to my apartment. The thing weighs almost nothing so it's got to be some kind of letter or document.

A letter from Paige? I start sweating just thinking about what she'd have to say and how it would make me feel. I open the damn thing the second I'm inside my apartment.

The first thing I see is one of those glossy photos that are almost the same size as the envelope itself. I know who's in the picture before I actually take it out.

When I look at the face staring back at me, I literally feel as if my breath has been knocked out of me. A linebacker hit that caught me blind.

Dark-brown hair, two front teeth in an otherwise gummy smile, and eyes so green, they look like colored contacts. She has my eyes but the rest of her is all Paige.

My daughter. So damn beautiful it hurts.

I don't remember heading to the kitchen but that's where I find myself a minute or so later. Clutching the photo between my fingers, I place the envelope on the table and lower myself onto the closest chair. There's a heaviness in my chest that makes it hard to breathe.

I'm not sure how long I sit there staring at her, memorizing every inch of her beautiful little face. But it must have been long enough.

"Earth to Kingston."

My roommate's voice finally penetrates, bringing me out of my stupor. My head snaps up to see him standing at the opening of the kitchen. If he'd been a murderer, I'd be a dead man. I hadn't even heard him come in.

"You deaf? I called you a couple times." His date must have gone well because he's wearing one of those shit-eating grins. "What're you looking at?" he asks, as he approaches.

My gaze goes back to my daughter. When I don't immediately respond, he rounds the table until he's peering at the picture over my shoulder.

"Cute kid. Whose is she, your sister's?"

I shoot a glance back at him before replying, "No, she's mine."

Steve makes this strangled sound in his throat, his expression going from shocked to disbelieving. Then he emits a serrated laugh. "Yeah right. Shit, you almost had me. Quit fucking with me."

It's quiet for a couple beats.

"Holy shit. You've got a kid?"

What he really means is, You've got a kid and didn't tell me?

"I can't fucking believe it."

It's late, I'm emotionally drained and I'm not in the mood for an interrogation. I grab the manila envelope from off the table and come to my feet. I'm surprised when a regular-sized, white envelope falls out of it and onto the floor. It's only then I remember what Diane said. There's also something in there from Paige.

The photo is obviously from my sister so this letter must be from Paige. I scoop it off the floor, place the picture of Brianna down, and remove two sheets of paper from the envelope.

Once I unfold them, I realize it's not a letter. It's a document. I have to read the heading at the top of the form three times before I can make sense of what it says. What it means. And that's when everything inside me goes numb.

"Holy shit," Steve, who's hovering behind me, exclaims softly, obviously reading it over my shoulder. "Is that from your ex?"

I don't answer. I think it's pretty self-explanatory.

But apparently it's not, because he goes on to ask, "Is that a form to give up your parental rights?"

Yeah, that's exactly what it is.

**BUY**   **TRAPPED or TRAPPED Expanded Edition**

Click here to receive news of all Beverley Kendall's future releases!

**Beverley loves interacting with readers.  **

**  
**

You can visit her at website: http://beverleykendall.com

Follow her on Twitter

Connect with her on Facebook

And communicate with her via email at beverley@beverleykendall.com

