 
THE MIND IS A RASCAL

Kill your mind before your mind kills you!!

by

AiR
    THE

MIND

IS A

RASCAL

by

AiR

Kill your mind before your mind kills you!!!

Copyright © AiR Foundation 2018

AiR asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of this book.

All rights reserved.

No part of the content (of this publication except images) may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher.

Printed in India by Navya Graphics, Bangalore.

I Thought My Mind Was King.

I Thought My Mind Was Everything. Until One Day I Searched For My Mind. Where It Was I Could Not Find!

     CONTENTS

PART A |

---|---

The Mind Is King! It Is Everything! | 01

PART B |

It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal | 29

PART C |

Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You! | 52
PART D |

Did I Kill My Rascal Mind? | 77

POEM |

Can You Find The Rascal Mind? | 83

About The Author - AiR 85
     PREFACE

I always thought that my mind was king, and it was the most important treasure I possessed. In fact, I thought I was the mind. It was me. Until one day, I realized that the mind is a rascal. It is a mischievous monkey. It stops us from realizing the truth about life. I always believed my mind until I realized that I should use my intellect to realize the Truth.

After living for over 50 years, I suddenly realized a truth. It was something that I never believed before. I realized that 'I' will never die and published two books on death. The body will die but I who was alive never die. I further realized that 'I' am not 'I'. I am not the ego, mind, body that I always thought I was. I realized this when I went on a quest to nd out – "Who am I?" As I published another book on this, I realized that my quest for happiness, my search for meaning and purpose of life was being blocked by a rascal – my own mind!

While we all seek happiness, we are not happy ALL the time. We experience waves of joy and sorrow as the rollercoaster of life leads us from womb to tomb. We think that we "live", but most of us "exist" because we are prisoners of our own mind. We are caged in prisons of
    misery and sorrow because we have misunderstood the mind to be our best friend, when in reality, it is our enemy. It has made us think that we are a body, mind and soul led by our ego, but this is not true. We always believed that whatever the mind thought was true, but that was wrong.

I was shocked to realize this startling and unbelievable fact that my own mind was my biggest enemy. I started to take control of my mind and overcome it. I realized I had no option because if I didn't, it would destroy me, with all the myth and illusions it produced, enveloping me in ignorance.

We humans would never accept the fact that it is our mind that stops us from realizing the truth. But it is true. The mind is a rascal. It is a thief. It is a monkey in our head that makes us live a life of illusion. It is this trickster that holds us back from going on a quest and realizing the truth about life.

Our journey on earth is short – the average lifespan between birth and death being about 75 years. Instead of understanding life and its purpose, we are distracted by our mind and we waste this treasure of being born as a human being. We live without realizing who we are, where we came from, where we will go after death, what is our life purpose, and how we can live with peace and joy.
    In this book, I share my understanding of the "Mind" and my own personal experience of how I transcended it. I share my realization of the truth and how I killed the rascal, my own mind. It doesn't die that easily, but at least, I have been able to put it behind prison bars so that I could escape from a cage where it imprisoned me. I wanted to live a life of bliss, tranquillity and joy, and I realized that it was my own mind holding me back.

Join me on an exciting journey to discover the mind and you will be shocked to realize that the mind that you hold in such high esteem is actually your own enemy. If you are committed enough, you too can go on a quest and discover the truth about the "Rascal Mind". You too can live a life without fear, worry or anxiety. You can kill the rascal and live with peace, joy and bliss!

The Rascal Mind is not 'ME'...

It is my Enemy!

PART A

The Mind Is King!

It Is Everything!

2
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

The mind is everything! Don't we believe that the mind is King? Of course, the world believes that the mind is of primary importance. We have been taught that we cannot live without the mind. Even without understanding what the mind is, where the mind is, we have subscribed to the belief that the mind is king. It is time to stop, analyse and understand the truth about the mind.

What is the mind? We think that it is that part of us that enables us to think and thereafter to feel and be conscious of our surroundings. It is the mind with which we experience life. Different people dene the mind differently. Some confuse it with the brain, the intellect, or the memory. But the mind is a specic function or activity of our body.

The primary job of the mind is to think. It is a "thought factory" that constantly produces thoughts, just like a popcorn machine produces popcorn. It is said to produce up to 50 thoughts a minute. We don't realize it, but this can be up to 50,000 thoughts a day. People wonder why the mind thinks so much, but that's how we are designed. The eyes see, the ears hear, the nose smells, the tongue tastes, the skin touches, and the mind thinks.

The mind produces all kinds of thoughts: good and bad, positive and negative, peaceful and anxious, calm and

3
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

angry, friendly and hostile. In fact, it is the mind that keeps us going through the faculty of thought. The mind joins the 5 senses that interact with the world to perceive things around us. It also desires, and wants this and that, primarily to be happy. No normal mind would produce a thought to desire something that will make one unhappy. However, the mind inadvertently makes us unhappy because every time it produces a thought that desires or craves, it also produces misery. All the thoughts or cravings are not fullled. Some desires are achieved and we become happy, and when they are not, we become disappointed. We continue to live with waves of joy and sorrow. We attribute our happiness or unhappiness to the mind because the body cannot desire without the mind. It is the mind that transmits messages of desire and its consequences of joy and sorrow.

Can we live without the mind and thoughts? We could exist, but it would hardly be called living. A human being is what its thoughts make it. A human being comes alive with a body, mind, heart and soul. Some people question the existence of the mind.

Does the mind exist? Of course, it does. What a ridiculous question! Everybody has a mind. We know it. You think with your mind, don't you? But while the mind denitely seems to exist, it is not clear where exactly it is and what

4
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

distinctly constitutes the mind. It seems that a life without a mind is impossible.

The mind is very powerful. Unfortunately, the mind is considered to be everything subtle that the body possesses. We consider the mind to be the thought factory that produces thoughts. We think it is also the memory that remembers everything we do and recalls it on demand. The mind is considered to be the intellect that discriminates and decides. The mind is also believed to be the one who perceives and feels. The mind, which thinks, remembers, recalls, discriminates, and feels, is looked upon as the controller of the body. Therefore the mind is everything! But is that true?

If we analyse the mind, it is different from several subtle functions of the body. The mind is a thinker with a primary function of generating thoughts while we are awake. It dreams while we sleep. The mind is not the intellect. The intellect is another subtle function of the body that gives us the ability to discriminate between right and wrong. We should not confuse it with the mind. The mind only produces thoughts, but the intellect discriminates between these thoughts. Even the memory that is connected to the mind is a different domain. It has a specic function to memorize and recall. The mind produces thoughts, but it is the memory that records these

5
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

thoughts. Therefore, while there is no doubt that the mind is very powerful, it tricks us into believing that it is everything – the mind, the memory and the intellect, which it is not.

Another simple method of separating the mind from the intellect is to watch the waking mind as the body sleeps. We realize that the mind is different from the memory and the intellect because whatever the mind dreams when we are asleep, the intellect does not review or discriminate. The intellect does not decide whether the mind should dream or not dream. The intellect is disconnected, disabled and not conscious. Therefore, when the body sleeps, it seems that the intellect also goes to sleep. If the intellect was awake then the intellect would discriminate dreams, would choose in a dream. But we are unable to choose in a dream because the mind is different from the intellect.

When we are awake, and the mind is observing, thinking and feeling, the memory records what the mind thinks. But what happens when we are asleep? It seems that the memory also goes to sleep. We do not remember what we see in dreams. In most cases, we cannot remember or recall dreams. It only goes on to show that the memory is asleep as the mind dreams, which makes it different from the mind. If the memory and mind were one, then every

6
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

dream would be recorded in our memory and it would be easy to recall. But we are not able to recall our dreams because they are not recorded in our memory.

We should learn to isolate our mind from our other subtle functions. Otherwise we are living a fairy tale that is far from the truth. No doubt the mind plays a leading role in our life. Every morning when we wake up, we wake up with a thought, even before we leave our bed. These thoughts trigger feelings, which are followed by action. Isn't it common to let the thought of a dream start your day? The mind is responsible for both for the dream thought and the waking thought. The mind behaves like the engine of our train. It leads us in a direction that it chooses, and we helplessly follow it. We often let the mind lead the intellect. The body and the ego follow it, making it all powerful. Therefore, over the centuries, it has been believed that the mind is king.

In the early 20th century, there was a popular belief "As a man thinketh, so is he." It was the mind that was considered to be the destiny maker of a man. If the man's thoughts were right, the man would be right. And it was considered that thoughts or the mind was everything. This belief of mind power continued throughout the 20th century where people believed that the mind was everything. It was king!

7
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

The mind thinks thousands of thoughts. It is these thoughts that dene the destiny of our life. But what creates thoughts? While the brain is the physical organ of the thought factory, the fuel of our thoughts are emotions. Positive emotions produce positive thoughts just like negative emotions can ll our life with negativity. Can we control our thoughts? If there is some way we can control our emotions, then denitely we can inuence our thoughts.

The whole world is busy pursuing the art of positive thinking because the goal of mankind is happiness and we believe that it is the mind that makes us happy or unhappy based on our thoughts and our attitude. Our attitude or our response and behaviour is also triggered by the mind. Although our attitude is inuenced by the intellect, if the intellect does not intervene, the mind can choose unhappy thoughts based on our feelings and habits, which are also products of the mind. Thoughts lead to feelings, feeling lead to actions and actions lead to habits. Once habits are formed, they in turn create thoughts. Therefore, the mind is undoubtedly very powerful.

But where does the mind come from? Are we born with a well-developed mind? Of course not! We develop our mind as we grow. While our parents, our teachers and our surroundings are responsible for the kind of mind we possess, there is a debate on what is responsible for the

8
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

personality of our mind. Is it nature or nurture, or is it both? Is it the way we are brought up, or is it our genes? The mind builds its own personality, and through its evolution, it develops beliefs, habits and emotions that become its foundation and the raw material for producing thoughts. Philosophically and spiritually, there may be another paradigm of a mind carrying forward its past personality from its previous life. Nobody is sure about the origin of the mind.

Are we able to control the mind and live in constant joy and peace? Unfortunately not! The mind often triggers waves of thought – both happy and unhappy – as it controls our body. Through our sense organs, the mind creates desires and cravings that produce ripples of thought and we are ooded by a hurricane of thought waves. While the mind seems to be the emperor of our body kingdom, it is time to analyse and get to the truth, to understand what controls the mind and how we can be truly happy living with tranquillity.

Is the mind a dictator? Does it dictate to the body to act as per its directions? Yes, in many cases, the mind thinks and the body acts. But in some cases, the mind is questioned. There is another faculty in human beings that is not so consciously used. It is called the intellect. Because the mind and the intellect are considered to be one, most of us do not pass every thought through the lter of the intellect.

9
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

We believe that the intellect is automatically approving every thought, but this is a myth. Those people who develop a strong intellect are able to control their mind and their thoughts. More importantly, a well-developed intellect discriminates between a good thought and a bad thought and then forwards the thought to the body to act. In cases where the intellect is weak, the mind bulldozes an individual with thoughts that seem to be followed by spontaneous actions. Therefore, if one wants to understand one's mind and control it, then one needs to accept something more powerful than the mind – the intellect! In fact, if one was to compare the mind versus the intellect, the intellect is king. The mind is nothing!

Why is the intellect more powerful than the mind?

The mind thinks all kinds of thoughts – positive and negative, good and bad, but it is not necessary that all thoughts are for the progress and success of an individual. Every individual wants to be happy, but not every thought will lead to ultimate happiness. The intellect is the one who discriminates. It is the one who evaluates and, decides whether the thought is right or wrong. Thoughts pop out of the thought factory like popcorn in a popcorn machine. They keep on popping. We are aware that the mind produces up to 50,000 thoughts a day. These thoughts lead to feelings and actions, but are not necessarily going to make us happy. It is the intellect that

10
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

must choose whether the thoughts should be permitted to become feelings, then actions and nally habits that will determine our destiny. If we do not use the intellect, we are not choosing our destiny. We are permitting the mind to decide our thoughts and therefore our destiny. The mind thinks both kinds of thoughts, good and bad, and therefore, if let astray, it may not lead us to a destiny of our dreams. It is the intellect, which if well utilized, that can do so. Therefore, it is not the mind that decides our destiny, but the intellect.

Let us analyse the mind and its perceived functions. The mind seems to be the subtle part of the body, the invisible, intangible software that controls the hardware of the body. It seems to think, remember, feel, and decide. While these faculties of the body are attributed to the mind, in reality, they are not the mind. Let us examine each function.

The mind thinks – of course, it does! The mind is like a monkey, constantly jumping from thought to thought. I was thinking of going on a cruise. I thought of starting from Barcelona in Spain. I then wondered where the Mediterranean Sea would take me. I was sure it would touch Rome. Oh! I have always wished to go to the Vatican City, but I wonder if the Pope is there? Are visitors allowed to meet the Pope? Anyway, I thought, what is the use of meeting him if he can't speak English. I wish I had learned

11
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

Italian or Spanish. But my teacher forced me to learn a vernacular language. Of what use are these vernacular languages? It's a global world and though we live locally, we need to think internationally. Does this really matter? With global warming, the end of the world seems imminent!

In a matter of a minute, my mind embarked on an exotic cruise and went right to the end of the world. Such is the mind! It can't remain still! It keeps popping thoughts just like popcorn in a machine and it keeps jumping like a monkey. The mind is a thought machine – there is no doubt! But what about the memory?

The memory seems to be a different part of our subtle body. While we normally consider it to be part of the mind, it has two primary functions – to remember and to recall. The memory seems to be like a video camera with an unlimited storage capacity. It constantly records anything and everything that we experience and stores it in the brain. It is not constantly recalling what it stores, but when we trigger or provoke our memory, it is capable of recalling what it has recorded most of the time. Sometimes, it seems like the memory has lost data. But often, with a clue, it recalls everything. I was on a ship and the girl who helped me do the reservation just passed by me. I greeted her, but I could not recall her name. I scratched my head several times, but it seemed like my

12
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

memory had lost the information. Then by chance, I glanced at the names of the crew in the ship, and immediately, my memory recalled her name. Our memory seems highly sophisticated, mystical and magical. It is said that the memory of us humans is probably bigger than the most advanced computer in the world. However, the memory is different from the mind.

What about the intellect? Another function of a human being that is mistaken as a faculty of the mind is the intellect. The intellect is distinct and different from the mind. It is that faculty that helps us discriminate. We can evaluate what is good and bad, distinguish between black and white and use the faculty of the intellect to choose and decide. The intellect is highly sophisticated and is usually on duty. If, for instance, we are peeling a pistachio, we eat the nut and throw the shell. However, if the mind is wandering, we sometimes nd ourselves eating the shell and throwing the nut – don't we? This is not because we don't have an intellect, but rather because it has been overpowered by a wandering mind!

While we consider the mind to be the one that feels, is it actually so? Feeling is a joint function of the body, the mind and the ego put together. I feel hungry if I haven't eaten for hours, just as you would feel angry according to certain disappointing circumstances. But these feelings are experienced by us through the senses of the body, the

13
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

faculty of the mind, and the experience of the ego.

The ego is that domain of us that experiences "I"ness, "my"ness and "mine"ness. I may think I am really intelligent, I may feel that my house needs renovation, and I may wonder why my neighbour is using the lawn mower, which is mine. The ego is me. And it is "I" that feels both glad and sad. I use my body and my mind to feel, but I am the one who feels, not my mind. Both my mind and my body are instruments that assist me in my feelings as I live as the ego.

Therefore, the mind is not the memory, nor the intellect and neither is it the ego. It is just a monkey that keeps jumping from thought to thought.

There are four distinct subtle functions that we mistakenly consider to be the mind: the mind, the memory, the intellect and the ego. They are together known as the "subtle inner instrument" of the body that we experience, but which can't be touched. To understand this better, it can be considered that the body is the hardware and the four subtle functions of mind, memory, intellect and ego form the software that becomes the operating system of the body. They are applications without which the body machine cannot function.

What else does the mind do? While we are awake, the

14
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

mind helps us walk, talk and conduct other activities that keep us alive. The mind seems to control all our sense organs – the eyes that see, the nose that smells, the ears that hear, the tongue that tastes and the skin that perceives. It also controls the action organs responsible for voluntary movements like talking, grasping, walking, excreting and reproducing. While the brain and the nervous system are like the engine and wires of the body that pass electricity to every cell, the mind seems to be the one that receives messages and transmits messages and coordinates all the functions of the body. The brain is the physical part, of which the mind is a subtle part. How would we manage without the mind?

While the mind is distinct from the memory, intellect and the ego, there are some functions that are attributed to the mind. The mind dreams when we are asleep, as it takes ight into a land of fantasy. Within moments, the mind traverses years of time. These dreams seem to be real only till the time we wake up and so are the nightmares that cause us suffering while we are asleep. We never consider dreams to be real because we know that dreams are the fantasy of the mind.

The mind also makes us react and respond with what is more popularly called as our attitude. Because of the mind's reaction, we are recognized as either the ones with a positive mental attitude or those with a negative mental

15
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

attitude. An attitude or response is clearly trigged by the mind, although it may be inuenced by other factors.

Are all minds the same? No. Some are peaceful, some are agitated, and some are lazy or a combination of these three. A peaceful mind has simple thoughts, with focus on positivity, love, compassion, forgiveness, and moral and ethical values. Such a mind often thinks spiritual thoughts and is not consumed by desire, greed and craving.

An agitated mind is hyperactive. It is aggressive with lots of desires. It is full of passion and dreams. Such a mind is stressed as it aspires to reach the skies and is constantly thinking. A lazy mind is indifferent, carefree and careless. To this mind, nothing matters. Neither is it aggressive nor is it peaceful. A sleepy mind has no goals, no purpose and no meaning. It just exists.

Minds develop on the basis of several factors. It is said that the mind is inuenced by genes and by its past history, habits, upbringing and training. Minds can transform through a positive or negative inuences. But minds are minds. They think thoughts and that is common of all minds.

It is said that there is a conscious mind and a subconscious mind. Is it so? Actually, no. There is a mind that behaves differently when we are in our conscious state. When the body is awake and the mind is part of the body, it functions

16
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

as the waker. When the body sleeps and we lose our state of consciousness, becoming unconscious, the mind still functions in this subconscious state to dream. It wanders across the world in minutes. It is the same mind that is working in a different state of consciousness. Therefore, it is often referred to as a subconscious mind. The mind, in fact, hardly sleeps. Even when the body sleeps, it is awake. However, there is another state where the mind goes to sleep. We are in a state of complete unconsciousness where both the mind and the body are asleep. When we wake up, we realize that we were in a deep sleep state, where there was no action and no dream. But we experience this third state of consciousness as the sleeper, the earlier states being the waker and the dreamer. These three states are generally known as the conscious mind, the subconscious mind, and the unconscious mind – whereas in reality, it is our state of consciousness in which the mind behaves as the waker, dreamer and sleeper. All through, it is evident that the mind exists. It thinks, it dreams and it sleeps.

The mind also has the power to imagine, and this creative faculty of the mind is often attributed to a state of superconsciousness. The mind is supposed to vibrate at a frequency that makes it creative, and it is said to communicate with the universe, causing hunches, sixth sense, intuition and even telepathy, although there is no empirical evidence of the same. Whether our imagination

17
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

is a product of the super mind or it is born out of our state of superconsciousness is yet to be discovered.

However, the mind becomes very powerful in this superconscious state. In this state, the mind vibrates at a frequency where it telecasts and receives messages to and from the universe. It is in this state of superconsciousness that the mind is said to be at its zenith.

We can go on talking about the mind, what it is and what it does. But let us stop for a moment to nd out where the mind is.

To understand where the mind is, we have to understand our body and then the location of the mind in the body. Do we have a doubt about what our body is and where our body exists? We don't. We can see our body and we can feel it. We know we have feet, hands, a head, 5 sense organs, several organs of action and a few critical organs like the brain, the heart, the kidneys, and the lungs amongst others that make the body function. But where is the mind located?

Is the mind restricted in the brain or is it everywhere in the body? While we often consider the mind to be the brain, it actually functions in practically every cell of the body. The brain is made up of billions of neurons, and these are not only located in the skull, but throughout the body.

18
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

Therefore, the mind, in reality, seems to be in every cell of the body.

While the mind is omnipresent in the body, is it a part of the body? Of course, it is. My mind is different from your mind. My mind functions in my body, not in yours. Therefore, our mind is very much a part of our body. The body is the physical part of us. It can be touched and felt. The mind is a subtle part. It can only be experienced. The physical body dies, but what about the mind?

If one was to virtually peel the body to nd the mind, what would they nd? They would rst peel the outer layer of the skin – the epidermis that provides a water proof barrier and creates our skin tone. They would then reach the dermis, the tough connective tissue that has hair follicles and sweat glands. Finally, they would reach the third layer of the skin, the hypodermis, made of fat and connective tissue. Below the skin lies a mass of fat that has miles and miles of blood vessels along with tissues and muscles that seem to be wrapped around a skeleton of bones. The body also has several organs like the brain, the heart, the kidneys, the lungs and the intestine. If one were to peel every single cell of the body, one would still not be able to nd the mind. Even if one were to break the bones, one would nd bone marrow, but no mind. Where is the mind?

19
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

Biologists and scientists have also concluded that while the mind and brain are used synonymously, the brain is a physical organ that contains billions of neurons and is responsible for the mind function. However, the mind location is not restricted to the brain. It exists wherever the neurons exist. The mind seems to be like a virtual machine. But the mind is not the brain, and the brain is not the mind. The mind can be considered as the brain in action. When the brain is dead, the mind cannot function.

Many of us consider ourselves to be the mind. We are a body–mind–soul complex, and we experience the mind all the time. We experience it when we are awake as the waker and we experience it when we sleep as the dreamer. A few of us go a step further to realize that we are not the mind, but we surely have a mind because we experience bliss when the mind sleeps. After a state of dreamless sleep, when we wake up, we are totally relaxed, having slept like a log.

The mind thinks, worries and wanders. We experience the mind at all times. While there is no doubt that the mind exists, there is no clarity on its whereabouts. Where is the mind located?

There was once a king who went to a saint with a complain that he was restless and had lost his peace of mind. His mind was very disturbed, and he asked the great sage for

20
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

help. The saint replied, "You don't have to do anything. Just bring your mind to me." The king was confused. The saint said, "Come in the morning at 5:00 AM, but remember to bring your mind with you."

The king was very confused. He wondered what the saint meant when he said, "bring your mind". How could he go without his mind? He even thought of dropping the idea, but out of respect for the saint, he went the next morning. The saint asked him, "Where is your mind? Have you brought it?" The king smiled and asked, "How can I come without my mind? It is in me." The saint told him that it is good that he realized that. The next instruction he gave the king was, "Close your eyes, and nd out where your mind is. The moment you nd it, inform me, and I will make it peaceful." The king closed his eyes and searched for his mind within. He searched hard only to realize that there was no mind. It was just a function, an activity of the body. He shared his nding with the saint, and the saint replied, "If it is just an activity, then don't do the activity. That's all! It is just like walking or talking. These are activities you perform. If you don't want to walk or talk, just don't do it. When there was no mind at all, where was the question of making it peaceful? And if thinking was just an activity, then we can control that activity of 'thinking' and create peace."

Everybody knows that we have a mind, but ironically,

21
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

nobody has seen the mind. Have you seen the mind or even a picture of it? Your mind immediately goes to the picture of your head, the skull or your brain. But while that is the centre of mind's activity, it is not the mind.

We now have a fair idea about what the mind really is, how it is different from the intellect, and where it is located. By now, we already know that the mind is not king. It is not everything. In fact, we can't even nd it.

Over the centuries, there has been a debate: some people believe – "I think, therefore I am," while others say – I am, therefore I think." The former believe that existence is due to thought, the mind. The latter believe that due to existence, there is thought, the mind. But this hardly matters. What matters more is where is the mind and what is the mind. Am I the mind, or do I have a mind? As long as we experience the mind thinking, and as long as we are separate from the mind, how can we be the mind? Our eyes see an object. Our mind observes the eye. We experience the mind observing the eye seeing the object. Therefore, we are not the mind. But we denitely have a mind.

At times, although our eyes are seeing an object, we don't see it because our mind is wandering. This makes us realize the presence of our mind and how it can get disconnected from the eyes, although the eyes are wide

22
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

open, looking at the object. It also endorses the fact that the mind is different from us as we experience it wandering and not capturing what the eyes see.

We need to be clear about the relationship between the mind and the body. The body is just the external crust of the mind. They are not two different things. They are just like the oyster and its shell – two aspects of one thing, both of which are very intimately connected. Therefore, when the mind is disturbed, the body also gets disturbed.

What is the relationship between eyes and sight? The eyes are a physical sense organ through which we see. Without the eyes, we cannot see. Sight is a function or activity of the eyes. The brain in the body along with the entire nervous system is the organ through which we think. The mind comes alive through the brain and nervous system. It is a function or activity of the brain, but it is not the brain, just like sight is not the eyes.

As we understand the mind in context with the body, we should be able to complete the puzzle that makes the body. The body is not just the physical aspect what we touch and feel, but also the mind that thinks and the other subtle aspects of the ego, the memory and the intellect. The various parts of the body with all its organs form the hardware of the body just as the mind, memory, intellect and ego form the software. What else is required to make

23
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

the body computer work? It needs power supply. This is supplied to the body–mind complex by a life energy often referred to as the soul. This life energy enters to give us birth, and when the life energy departs, the body–mind complex experiences death.

What is the connection between the mind and the soul? Is the mind a part of the soul? Since the word soul can be dened differently by different people, let us rather stick to the term "life energy" rather than calling it the soul. It is known around the globe as the soul, prana, chi or atman. As long as we are alive, there is a body, a mind and a life energy that keeps the body alive. When the life energy departs, death happens – there is no breath. Not only does this life energy give breath, but it is also responsible for circulation, digestion, excretion and various other diverse functions inside the body that need power or energy to function. When this power departs, all the functions come to a standstill.

The body dies and lies in front of us, and it is commonly believed that the mind leaves the body and ies away. It is nowhere to be found as the dead body is cremated or buried.

At death, the life energy departs and the body ultimately turns to dust. Where is the mind? Since we all believe that

24
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

the mind exists, we logically continue to believe that the mind has moved on, or passed away, only to be reborn in another body with a new name.

While the pragmatist does not accept that the mind departs at death along with the life energy, the question is: where is the mind at death? We are all aware of the presence of a mind. It distinctively functions, it thinks, it dreams and it wanders. But what happens to the mind when we die? Does the mind also just die with the body? While this is a possibility, it is not accepted as true for a few reasons.

The body dies and if the mind dies with the body, then there is no continuity between death and birth. Why is it that some of us are born fortunate and some unfortunate? Logically, it is because of our past actions and not just due to random luck. It is thus believed that the mind is reborn.

Recently, there have been cases where young children are able to recollect events of their past life. Many such cases are emerging in the world today and they endorse the belief that the mind doesn't die, but continues to be reborn in another body, along with the other subtle functions that together form the inner instrument.

How are young children able to play the piano or recite scriptures without learning or being trained? It seems

25
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

impossible that a fresh mind can do this. Such behaviours are attributed to a subtle body that has lived before and learnt and experienced such skills. There is no real proof of this belief, but through inference, we realize that it seems possible that the mind is reborn. One may choose to believe in rebirth or not; it hardly matters!

Many people around the world believe in the concept of Karma, the Law of Cause and Effect, or the Law of Action and Reaction. As per this law, as we sow, so shall we reap. What goes around comes around – if we plant tomatoes, we will get tomatoes. All through life, it is the mind that directs the body to act. The body is only the tool of the mind, and thus the real doer is the mind. Therefore, rightfully, it is the mind that should receive the consequences of the actions performed by the body that died. Based on its actions – good or bad – the mind is said to be reborn to face reward or reprimand as the case may be according to its own karma. Since the physical body disintegrates to dust after death only the subtle body can be reborn. This concept of Karma was earlier limited to the Hindu faith and Buddhism, but it is now a globally accepted law. Of course, one may choose to believe or disbelieve in the concept of Karma.

Over the centuries, we have believed that the mind is everything. It is an absolute wonder! Along with the mechanisms of the brain and neurological system, it

26
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

converts the impulses from the sense organs into messages that can be decoded and read. It then responds with appropriate thoughts and also transmits signals to the memory to store. But now we know that it is not the mind alone, but a combination of all our subtle functions – our subtle inner instrument that operates the physical body. The mind only thinks. The memory remembers and recalls. The intellect discriminates and chooses. The body and ego together with the mind feel. The mind thinks, but it is not the king!

The mind, we can conclude, is a very powerful tool. It drives the body, it produces thought, and it controls our feelings. It is constantly on the move and without it we cannot live. It can make us happy or unhappy. Because of its monkey behaviour, its constant mumbling and rumbling create stress, worry and rob us of our peace of mind. It is a critical function of our body, but it needs to be controlled. Otherwise, it can drive us crazy. If we don't effectively use it, we will lose our tranquillity. Somehow, it is not the king, but without it, we cannot do anything!

Since we are now aware about our mind, our intellect and their connection with our body, we are convinced that the mind is not everything. In fact, because of its volatile behaviour of constantly producing thoughts, it is a thief; it robs us of our peace and happiness. Because it dreams, it

27
    The Mind Is King! It Is Everything!

misleads us and even confuses us. We need the mind to think, but by itself, it is a trickster. Without the intellect, the mind in its uncontrolled mode can create havoc in our life.

It is up to us! If we choose to make the mind king, then our life is controlled by our thoughts and it becomes a challenge to be happy. However, if we let the intellect take charge, then we can discriminate and choose thoughts, feelings, actions and attitudes. These will lead to our beliefs, our habits and our destiny. We need to realize that we can choose to be happy by putting the intellect in charge of our life rather than the mind, which is a rascal.

Therefore what is the mind? Is the mind king or not? Is the mind the engine of our train? Is the mind the creator of our destiny? Is the mind the decider of our happiness or unhappiness? Is the mind going to be responsible, whether we will be stressed or calm, successful or unsuccessful? Yes, the mind is very, very important. But it is not the king. The thought that the mind is everything is now replaced as the mind is a very important part of our life, but it is denitely not the king. It is the intellect that is far more important than the mind. And if we really want to make our life meaningful, we should change this belief that the mind is king.

28

The Mind is Not King It is Not Everything In fact, it is Nothing!

29

PART B

It's Not A King!

The Mind Is A Rascal

30
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

All along, we thought that the mind was king. It was everything. It was the controller of the body. It was impossible to live without the mind. When we analysed the mind, we realized that the mind wasn't truly the king. In fact, it was the intellect that is king. With this, a new conclusion emerged – The mind is a rascal! What is it that suddenly made the king into a rascal?

There is no doubt that the mind is very powerful. In fact, it is the most powerful tool that we possess. It is constantly playing tricks, creating misery and sorrow, and stopping us from the realization of the truth. It is so shrewd that it does all these, even without us realizing that it is our enemy. Are you shocked? You will soon agree.

It is unfortunate to discover that the mind is a rascal. It appears to exist and then creates stress, worry and fear and robs us of our happiness. And we are just helpless spectators.

Let us try to understand why we call the mind a rascal. What are the mischievous things the mind does to make it our enemy?

The craving mind makes us unhappy. It is our mind that desires. It makes us greedy. We want more and more. On the surface it looks like the mind is making us happy

31
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

because each fullled desire creates joy. But every unfullled craving makes us miserable, which is far more than the happiness that we get from fullled desires. The mind doesn't stop. It constantly seeks happiness, constantly produces thoughts of seeking and wanting, and therefore, constantly produces misery and pain.

Essentially, every mind desires to be happy. In seeking happiness, the mind craves for more. I want one more million, one more house, one more car, one more woman, and one more child. The mind thinks that happiness would be achieved in fullling this desire. The mind loses its state of peace and bliss by creating ripples of thought. When the desire is achieved, the ripples cease and the original state of peace and joy is achieved. This state already existed, but through its cravings, the mind created ripples of desire that caused agitation. It is strange! But every human being seeks happiness and unfortunately seeks it outside when in reality, it is within. If only the mind realizes this and doesn't create the ripples of desire, it automatically remains in a state of calm, peace and bliss. This is commonly known as contentment and fullment, rather than fullling the desire through achievement. Although our mind understands that unfullled desires cause disappointment and misery, we continue to desire and be unhappy because we have no control on the mind.

The worried mind causes stress. It creates FEAR – False

32
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

Expectations Appear Real. It confuses our real dangers with imaginary fears and constantly produces fearful thoughts. We fear death, we fear the loss of love, and we fear the loss of possession, when in reality, we don't need to! Some of us are fortunate to live with courage, but the mind generally produces fear and makes us worry.

The mind projects an apparent danger that causes unrest in us. It imagines circumstances that will create sorrow and robs us of our peace. Negative thoughts constantly rattle within us, causing agitation and turbulence within. The mind is an expert in constantly repeating these thoughts till we reach a level of stress and frustration. It seems that the entire body mechanism comes to a standstill due to this imaginary fear, and we become prisoners of misery and sorrow.

The rascal mind is an expert in creating stress and frustration. It makes us worry constantly, even when there is no need to worry. Instead of living peacefully and joyously, we worry about the past and then worry about the future, thus destroying the present moment, which could be lived in joy and peace. The mind is an expert in shuttling between the past and the future – when in reality, there is no past! It was the present that is over, and we can never go back to it. There is no future; only the present exists, but the mind jumps into the future, creating

33
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

trouble and worrying about something that may never happen. While the mind worries of the past and the future, it robs us of the treasure called the present moment, "Now!".

Gopal too had a rascal mind. But this rascal was not an ordinary one. He thought he was a rat. Every night, he would make noises like a rodent and behave like a rat, and his wife was fed up of his behavior. She took him to the best psychiatrist. The psychiatrist administered several types of treatment to Gopal. It was explained to Gopal that he was a human being and not a rat. He was shown the picture of a rat, even videos, and he was persistently convinced that he was Gopal and not a rat. His wife was quite pleased because there were positive changes. He never woke up in the middle of the night snifng for food, and it was time for the nal session with the psychiatrist. As he was leaving, he expressed his gratitude to the doctor and said, "Thank you for making me realize I am Gopal and not a rat. But I only have one question. While I know that I am Gopal, will the big black cat opposite my house, who keeps chasing me, also know that I am Gopal and not a rat?" Luckily, our mind is not like that of Gopal. Although it is a rascal, it can be transcended using the intellect.

The wandering mind makes us lose our focus. The mind

34
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

doesn't remain still. It has a habit of wandering. When we are trying to contemplate on a thought, it just wanders to another thought, distracts us, and makes us lose our focus. It troubles us with this habit and we lose our state of tranquillity.

We are busy doing some work and are engrossed in it. Suddenly, the mind distracts us with a thought and in a fraction of a minute, we are lost in that new thought! After a while, we come back to the important task, but we are unable to resume it because the thought that we had has now been displaced by the new thought. This is a very common mischief created by the mind that troubles us.

The mind is a monkey! The monkey mind robs our peace. It jumps from thought to thought. We experience the mind jumping from one topic to another till nally, we are lost. We were enjoying peace, but the monkey mind came and robbed our peace! It jumped to a meaningless thought and we start thinking irrelevant things that lead to anxiety. Most of the time, there is no necessity for the mind to jump like a monkey. But who can stop it? It seems to be having fun jumping from thought to thought at the cost of our peace.

The ignorant mind makes us live in darkness. The mind is a real rascal when it comes to hiding the truth from us. It

35
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

makes us believe that we are the body when in reality, we are not! We have a body, but the mind confuses us and makes us consider the body to be us. It further behaves like a naughty rascal when it makes us think that we are the mind. Of course, we have a mind, but we are not the mind. If we contemplate in silence, we can watch our mind wandering or worrying. We are clearly and distinctively different from the mind. But the mind envelopes us in a blanket of ignorance. All through life, the mind fools us and we remain in darkness. Because of this darkness, we are like a frog in the well, unable to see the outside world. We remain like cavemen who think that there is nothing beyond the cave, and this ignorance is caused by the mind.

The mind makes us jealous. It makes us feel envious looking at other's possessions and success. But why should we be unhappy? As long as we have our own possessions why should someone else's possessions make us unhappy? But the mind makes us unhappy because the mind creates jealous thoughts, envious feelings, and makes us have a jealous attitude. Similarly, the mind also makes us angry. It makes us upset when some of our expectations are not met and we react, we are up, we get upset. The mind is a rascal. It leads us to many acts due to its negative thoughts – acts that we feel ashamed of later, which are caused by the mind. The mind triggers certain actions through certain feelings which are born from the thoughts it manufactures.

36
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

Later, we regret as to why we did it. Who regrets? It is the intellect. But it is too late because the rascal mind already made us act. After the action, we may regret, but if we do not use the intellect, we cannot control the thought from becoming action. Such is the power of the rascal.

In fact, the rascal mind seems to have a negative personality. If the mind is negative, the intellect is positive. If the mind is selsh, the intellect is seless. If the mind is stressed, the intellect is calm. The mind thinks but the intellect reasons. The rascal produces thoughts without any meaning. But the intellect is able to reason and discriminate and is therefore far more powerful than the mind.

Today, the world is full of evil due to the rascal mind. Terrorists kill people and we wonder – why do terrorists kill! It is because terrorists have super rascal minds. That is the reason today the world is full of unhappiness. There is poverty in the world. Why does the world suffer? It is because the rich are not using their intellect to share their resources with the under-privileged and there is poverty and pain. This may lead to an uprising and even a possible revolution, which will go back to hit the rich. If the rich use their intellect, then they would not let their rascal minds continue to live in a way that people suffer in poverty. All these are caused by the rascal. Today, there is suffering in the world not because of anything else, but because of

37
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

people who have minds that are rascals.

The rascal mind stops us from going on a quest. While anybody can go on a quest to discover the truth, the rascal stops us by keeping us busy with all its mischief. We are so busy craving and desiring, worrying and jumping from thought to thought, that we forget to realize who we are and what the purpose of life is. Our mind occupies our life so much that before we know it, life is over.

The mischievous mind envelops us in darkness. Because the rascal stops us from a quest, it is successful in hiding the truth from us. It constantly plays mischief and makes us attached to people and things. With the help of the ego, it continues to play mischief all through life and we do not realize the truth of who we are. The mind stops us from realizing where we came from, what the purpose of life is, what the secret of true happiness is, and what happens at death. We forget these important questions because the rascal keeps us busy attached and in the lust for an illusory world.

The dreaming mind creates fantasies. The rascal doesn't stop even when we sleep. It dreams. Sometimes, I dream that I am a prince living in a palace. In moments, I enjoy growing up in royalty, getting married to a beautiful princess, driving luxury cars, and eating exotic food, only

38
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

to wake up with a smile that it was just a dream. The mind also creates turmoil. I struggle to breathe because I have just fallen off the ship and I am drowning in the deep sea. I scream and cry in agony, only to wake up sweating out of the nightmare. How does the mind manage this? I wonder! It can dream anything and actually make us feel that we have experienced everything that happened in the dream – when in reality, it was only a dream. The dreaming mind can make us experience anything illusory, but we don't realize that even a waking mind does so.

The mind has two mischievous powers. In fact, the mind is not just capable of dreaming, but is also gifted with two very unique powers, which are lesser known to man – the power to conceal and the power to project. The mind conceals the truth of who we are, where we came from and where we will go. Simultaneously, it projects an illusion of our wealth and possessions – when in reality, nothing belongs to us. We come empty-handed into this world, and when we go, we cannot take anything. While we all know this, the mind continues to use its two unique powers –the power to conceal the truth and the power to project the illusion, making us live a "dream-like" life that is, in reality, a myth.

Through this dual power, the mind makes us believe that we are the body and mind – when in reality, we are not! We

39
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

have a body, and we have a mind. But the mind tricks us into believing otherwise. We can clearly see that at death, the body dies. We don't! But the mind still makes us believe that we die. It is obvious we are not the body that dies, but the mind convinces us to believe otherwise. We are different from the mind. We can see it wandering and worrying, but still the mind makes us believe we are the mind. The mind's unique powers are capable of creating this illusion.

If somebody asks you, "Who are you?", you would say "I am Jim", your name. You may say you are a doctor from France. In reality, you are not Jim. Your name is Jim. Your nationality is French. Your occupation is a doctor. But who are you actually? The mind doesn't let you realize that. You were not a doctor when you were born. You became a doctor, and you will not remain a doctor. But you still say you are a doctor because that is what the mind thinks and rightfully, that is your current occupation. But who were you before you were Jim, and what will happen to you after Jim dies? These are questions that we should answer. But the mind doesn't let us go on a quest to realize the answers to these questions.

The trickster mind fools us into being the ego. It mischievously gives birth to the ego – the "I"ness in each one of us. It provokes the ego to believe that we are

40
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

individuals who are different from each other. It is this provocation of the ego that is the biggest source of all misery and pain. Our ego causes us to be angry when our expectations are not fullled. Our ego develops greed because we want more and more for ourselves. It kills our natural humility creating pride that eventually gives us pain. It is this "my"ness that has created conicts amongst countries today. Because we constantly differentiate between what is mine and what is yours, there is a tussle in most relationships. The rascal mind kills universal brotherhood by provoking the ego to believe that we are individuals – when in reality, we are all part of one cosmic energy. But we are unable to realize this because the rascal has cleverly institutionalized an ego that keeps us busy with what 'I' want. In fact, the rascal mind has created a rascal shadow – the ego.

Even if we try to realize the truth of who we are and what we are not, the mind resists the realization because it knows that the moment we realize the truth, it will cease to exist. The reality is that there is no mind. It doesn't exist. It is just a subtle function of the body. But it appears as ME – the Mind and Ego.

The Mind makes me believe that I am ME (Mind + Ego) who exists in this body. Whether this is true or not, we shall soon discover because the scoundrel mind seems to have led us to misunderstand our own identity.

41
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

The karmic mind is reborn. The mind is said to be reborn because it behaves as ME – Mind + Ego, who becomes the doer. Our actions create corresponding reactions, and we get imprisoned in the cycle of death and rebirth. The body perishes, and the only entity that can continue the cycle of life and death is the mind. The mind is believed to be reborn in another body to full its obligations of its past existence, both good and bad, to face the reprimand and receive the rewards of the actions that were carried out in the past when it was alive in its previous body.

Because of the rascal mind, we are forced to take birth again and again and to suffer through life and death as we enjoy peaks of happiness, but suffer consistent valleys of misery and pain. The mind does not let us realize the truth that we are not the body. The body is constantly changing, and at death, it goes back to dust. We are not even the mind. In fact, the mind doesn't even exist. Whenever we try to catch the mind, we realize that the rascal is an illusion. It is only when we kill the rascal and realize the truth that we will be liberated from the cycle of death and rebirth. But the rascal mind prevents such a realization. Even if we get the knowledge of realization, the mind ghts a constant tug-of-war to keep us imprisoned so that it continues to exist.

The mind is undoubtedly a rascal! It doesn't let us contemplate the truth. Neither does it let us introspect

42
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

who we are in order to realize the truth. It continues its monkey behaviour, constantly jumping from thought to thought, ensuring we don't focus on the truth. It distracts us and takes us round in circles.

The rascal doesn't stop. It has so many methods of playing mischief. It constantly craves and desires, and keeps us busy in the pursuit of these desires, while we should be engaged in the quest of the truth. Every time we full a desire, the rascal doesn't stop! It wants more and more.

The mind through its constant thoughts, feelings, and actions creates unbreakable habits that become like prison bars pushing us into cages of misery and sorrow. Be it habits of the body, mind or the ego, they tie us down to an illusion and we are doomed. The intellect uses its power of discrimination to choose right over wrong, but the mischievous mind confuses and diffuses our intellectual power to remain supreme. The mind uses emotion to overpower reason, and the heart constantly defeats the brain to make us prisoners of misery and sorrow. Even though we are mortal beings, the mind makes us live in a manner that we don't prepare for death and the life beyond. Although there are triggers to realize the truth, we continue to go around in circles as slaves of the mind.

The mind is a thief. It is time to realize that the mind is not king. It's a rascal, and a scoundrel! It is the main cause of

43
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

our misery and sorrow. Not only does the mind make us unhappy when alive, it also continues to be born again and again only to make us experience misery and sorrow life after life. Isn't it time to kill the rascal?

As long as we remain under the inuence of the mind, we will never realize that the mind is a rascal. Although it makes us worry, fear, and jump like a monkey, hiding the truth and projecting an illusion, it makes us believe that it is our best friend. It appears as an innocent mind that makes us brilliant – when in reality, it is the biggest trouble maker of our life! The mind is our worst enemy. It is responsible for all our misery and pain. It hides the truth and stops us from realizing who we are and why we are here. Unless we use our intellect, we will never catch the monkey. The rascal mind continues to play tricks with us, robbing us of our joy and making us live and die in misery.

The mind is a vehicle. It is a tool to progress in our life journey. But just like we must have control on any vehicle, it is necessary to have control of the mind. Imagine driving a car without any control on the steering and the brake. Would you dare to drive such a car? While we would never drive such a vehicle, we are constantly driving the mind without any control mechanism, and thus, we suffer.

In fact, the mind enslaves us in many ways. A saint explained this very well. A man was pulling his cow with a

44
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

rope around his neck. When he asked his disciple the question, "Who is the slave?" The disciple instantly answered, "The cow is the slave." The saint smiled and quietly went over to the scene and let the cow free. The cow, in its joy of being free, started running away, and the man started chasing the cow so that he could tie it back again. The saint explained that in reality, the man was a slave to the cow. The mind is just like that. It gets attached to many things, and we become slaves. We chase and pursue people and things only to be unhappy with a heartache in the end. Why should we when nothing really belongs to us? We come empty-handed in this world and we will go empty-handed. But it is the mind that creates attachments through the ego and makes us miserable.

The only way to capture the rascal is to make our intellect the king. This will stop the mind from all its tricks, replacing negativity with positivity and moving from darkness to light. It is the intellect that will eliminate the ignorance that we live in, making us realize the truth.

Why have we nally concluded that the mind is not king, but it is the biggest thief, a rascal? It is not just because the mind makes us suffer. Although we suffer every day and worry all the time, the mind also gives us some happiness in cycles. Is it due to the fact that the mind imprisons us in a cage of misery and sorrow through its constant desiring and craving? The biggest reason why we must conclude

45
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

that the mind is a rascal is because the mind is constantly fooling us, tricking us and making us live a life of illusion. The rascal stops us from realizing the truth.

It is the mind that makes us believe that we are this body and mind – when in reality, we are not. We have a body and a mind, but the mind makes us constantly suffer as the body, as the ego and as the mind. It is because of this paradigm of the mind that we see ourselves not as what we truly are, but what we are not. Are we the reection in the mirror? Our intellect clearly tells us that the one in the mirror is not us. It is just a reection, and if we see a dirty reection, it is not because we are dirty, but the mirror is full of dust. Similarly, the mind tricks us throughout life to believe that we are the reected consciousness of ego, mind and body – when in reality, we are pure energy that departs at death!

Because the rascal stops us from realizing the truth of who we are, we live with desire and craving and constantly suffer. Not just that, we create karmas due to our actions and we are born again and again to suffer again and again – all because of the rascal mind.

Because the rascal makes us believe in the lie, it stops us from enquiry, from going on a quest, and from realizing the truth. The mind binds us with duty. It makes us feel duty-bound and programs us with things we need to do

46
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

by leading us as the body, mind and ego. It makes us feel we are fullling our duty towards our parents and children and to society. On the other hand, it does not make us full our primary duty as a human being who is born on earth. It stops us from realizing our purpose of nding out who we are and why we are here. Thus, we go round in circles and die without fullling life's purpose.

The mind also makes us feel ashamed. If we try to detach ourselves to go on a quest, the mind creates a feeling of shame that we have lost interest in worldly things and in a way, we have become crazy being spiritual. By experiencing shame, the mind discourages us from realizing the truth. By doing so, the rascal mind stops us from being liberated. It makes us view life with a paradigm that we are the body, mind and ego, thus making us slaves of our own desires.

The mind fears its own death. If one goes into an enquiry trying to nd the mind, one will realize there is no mind, leading to the end of the "mind" story. The mind stops us from such a quest by lling our life with desire, fear, worry and greed. Also, it keeps us busy with rituals and superstitions so that we don't enquire about the truth.

The mind doesn't want us to be quiet because silence is the enemy of the mind. In silence, the mind's truth is revealed. Therefore, the mind encourages conict. We are so busy

47
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

ghting, even waging wars that have no meaning, just because the mind has programmed us with conditioning that makes us live meaninglessly so that we are occupied with thoughts.

Although we never die, only the body dies, the mind makes us constantly fear death. This constant fear of death only strengthens the belief that we are this ego, mind and body, making us live and die in ignorance and misery. If only we realize that we are not the body that dies, then we don't suffer. But the mind stops us from realizing we are not the body, nor the mind as this would lead to its own death. Therefore, we continue to suffer.

The mind also stops us from experiencing love in its purest form. It teaches us a very narrow meaning of the word "love," as we don't realize that in reality, we are no different from one another. This causes so much heartache. We become possessive of the ones we love, only because the mind fools us into believing we are the body and mind, instead of realizing we are the energy within.

The mind further makes us live with pessimism and negativity, eliminating the pillars of faith, hope and enthusiasm, by introducing doubt, despair, hate and hesitation into our lives. We are so brainwashed with religious theologies accepted by the mind that we don't go

48
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

in quest of the spiritual truth.

The mind continues to project an illusion of who we are not, making us forget who we truly are. It projects a lie and conceals the truth and constantly makes us go round and round in the merry-go-round of life till we nally die without realizing the truth. Due to this, we suffer. Every human being may live with happiness, but before one dies, the body decays, often gets diseased, and then dies. Because the mind makes us believe we are the body, we experience tremendous suffering as the body. The mind fools us not only when we are asleep by dreams but also on its own, the mind wanders into dreamlands without the assistance of the body. But this is not real. We all know that dreams are dreams. The mind continues to fool us not only during dreams but also when we are awake, this time with the help of the body.

Unfortunately, while we realize that dreams are dreams, we don't realize that the waking state is nothing more than a dream. Both the waking state and the dream state are not real. We experience these two states, but the mind makes us think that we are the waker and we are the dreamer, both of which are untrue. We are the 'Experiencer' of both the states.

The mind loves to cut corners. It is supposed to knock on the door of our memory to seek it to recall information. It is

49
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

also supposed to knock on the door of the intellect for discriminating whether a thought is appropriate or not, but the rascal often bypasses these two doors and moves on with thoughts, feelings and actions and this makes us unhappy. If only the mind was disciplined and relied upon memory and the intellect to take decisions, we would be far happier.

When in reality, everything is a Cosmic Drama, the mind convinces us that everything is real. The world is real. Our possessions are real. Our relationships are real. Nothing is a drama. Nothing is a show. And although the intellect is available to discriminate, the mind does not permit the intellect to lter our thoughts. Therefore, from birth to death, we continue to live as fools thinking everything is real, but in reality, nothing is real.

The rascal mind continues to jump until we cage this monkey. We are helpless and unable to choose from among our thoughts. They come in random, as a steady stream of thoughts owing to us like an unstoppable river. It is so critical to cage the monkey by which we would be able to control thoughts, but it is so difcult to cage this monkey called the mind. Imagine, letting a river in ood go wild. It will destroy everything. We need a dam to control the ood waters. The dam is our intellect. It slows down thoughts, as well as control thoughts so that like waters of a river, our resource of thoughts are effectively

50
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

used to get a good harvest rather than a ood.

The rascal doesn't stay quiet. The rascal wanders. It makes us read newspapers and watch television, and it uses every possible trigger to jump. Hundreds of thoughts ood our mind that immerse us in meaningless issues: thoughts that make us waste our time, thoughts that make us wander from subject to subject, issue to issue, taking us away from our main focus and our main goal of life.

The rascal mind stops us from contemplation of the truth. If only we did not wander and go astray with meaningless thoughts, we would have free time to contemplate and introspect on the truth. We would be able to discover the true purpose and the true meaning of life. But unfortunately, because the mind is a rascal, it keeps jumping and it keeps wandering, thus keeping us away from our main goal.

Isn't all this enough to conclude that the mind is a rascal? It stops us from the realization of the truth and holds us back from demystifying the secret of life – of realizing who we truly are and why we are here.

As long as we continue to make the mind king and as long as we don't realize the mind is a rascal, it will continue to be a monkey that plays naughty tricks. And with its mischief, the mind will rob us of our peace and imprison

51
    It's Not A King! The Mind Is A Rascal

us with misery and sorrow throughout life.

It's time to realize not only that the mind is not a king, but also that it is a rascal. There is no doubt that as long as we don't realize that the mind is a rascal, we can never be happy. It is the rascal that stops us from experiencing ultimate happiness. It is the rascal that makes us worry and fear; it wanders from one thought to the other. It leads us from stress to frustration, from anger to jealousy. It is time to realize that the mind is a rascal. It is time to realize that the mind is our enemy. The rascal makes us live in ignorance throughout life.

Isn't it time to kill the rascal?

The Mind is a Rascal...

It makes me Think.

In Fear and Worry,

it makes me Sink.

52

PART C

Kill The Rascal

Before It Kills You!

53
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

What would you do if you found a reptile trying to attack you? Would you just wait and watch, or would you defend yourself? Even if you are compassionate and humanitarian, it would become your duty to protect yourself from harm. Self-defence is a virtue. We must protect ourselves.

We human beings want to be happy. There is nothing wrong in seeking happiness. As long as we don't make others unhappy in the bargain, it is perfectly ok to live in the pursuit of happiness. And if we truly want to be happy, we must eliminate all joy stealers from our life. The biggest thief of our happiness is our own mind.

Not only does the mind steal our happiness through worry, anger, stress, and fear, it also imprisons us in a blanket of ignorance making us live a life of illusion. It stops us from realizing the truth of who we are. It blocks us from liberation and imprisons us in misery and sorrow because there is no realization of the truth.

It is time to kill the rascal! The imposter is not king. The mind is a monkey. The mind is an enemy of realization of the truth. The mind deprives us of peace, bliss and joy and oods us with misery. It is more dangerous than a poisonous reptile. We need to destroy our mind before it destroys us!

54
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

We know that the mind is very powerful. There is no doubt about that. The question that we face is whether this powerful mind is friend or foe. We have already discriminated between the rascal mind and the powerful intellect. We have separated the memory from the mind, although they are connected. We have isolated the ego as the identity formed by a combination of the body and mind, and powered by a life energy. We are absolutely clear that the monkey that keeps jumping from thought to thought is the mind. It makes us shuttle from the past to the future. In the bargain, it keeps producing fear, worry, and anxiety, and steals our happiness. It is the thought factory that produces fear and worry. It cannot be our friend. It is our enemy. It is the biggest thief that we have encountered during our life because without our realization, it has continued to steal our joy and imprisoned us in ignorance and misery by acting as a powerful part of us. We need to kill the mind before it destroys us. Can we kill our mind and still be alive?

The good news is that we can! The process is simple. The mind makes it complicated because once we know the truth and shoot down the rascal mind, it still doesn't die. This may sound strange, but it is true. This is because it doesn't want to die. It wants to live and continue to act like our king, troubling us and taking us on a rollercoaster of misery and pain.

55
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

The rst weapon to kill the rascal mind is "knowledge". Knowledge of the truth that we are not the body and we are not the mind, but the life energy that has a body and a mind. We attack the rascal mind with this weapon of knowledge, but it still doesn't die. The rascal is not convinced. It refuses to accept the truth and wages a war against such claims that we are not the body and the mind.

To kill the rascal mind, we need a more powerful weapon than the knowledge of the mind itself. We need the intellect. We have to tie the rogue mind so that it doesn't jump like a monkey and distract us, thereby interfering in the process of realization of the truth.

Let us start the process of destroying the mind. Since we know that the mind is a terrorist, although it acts as an innocent and a benevolent part of us, we should systematically destroy it before it is too late. Our experience on earth in this body and with our mind is just for a few thousand days. Time is limited, and it needs a lot of commitment to stay focused to achieve this goal of killing the rascal mind and realizing the truth.

We cannot kill the rascal till we catch it. The mind is like a slippery sh. If we go within to try to locate it, we can't. If we virtually peel the body, we nd that it doesn't exist. But we can experience it. It appears to exist. What is the mind

56
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

and where is the mind?

If we don't identify it, how can we kill it? We know it is a rascal and we want to kill it, but rst, we must capture it. The mind is not the brain. It functions through the brain and the nervous system. But it is a unique, subtle faculty of the body that constantly produces thoughts. These thoughts produce feelings. These feelings lead us to action. The actions become habits, and the habits become our character. Thus, it is said that we are what our thoughts make us. The mind has made us believe that we are the body, the mind, the ego. But in reality, we are not! It has unfortunately become our belief, and to change this belief, we have to capture the mind. We are unable to catch the mind because we are unable to locate it.

The subtle faculty of the mind can only be caught by another subtle faculty – the intellect. The intellect is stronger than the mind. It can discriminate between right and wrong. When thoughts arise, the intellect can choose to accept or reject the thoughts. Of course it needs discipline and willpower, but the intellect can help develop a will as it weakens the mind and strengthens our power of discrimination. Since the mind is subtle and we can't capture it, we can only destroy it by realizing the fact that it doesn't exist and that its existence is an illusion.

We need the intellect along with several other strategies to

57
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

quieten the mind and slowly, but steadily dismantle its grasp on our life. We should learn to eliminate negative thoughts and encourage only positive thoughts through discrimination. This is a method of weakening the mind. As long as the mind behaves like a monkey and goes on jumping from thought to thought, it doesn't give us the power to catch it and destroy it. Therefore, slowing down the mind is the key principle of killing it.

Have you ever tried to catch a y that is very active ? At times, it is impossible because the y is so swift in its ight. But let the y indoors for a few hours, and you will nd that the life in the y seems to diminish. It starts ying slower than before. And then the insect reduces its pace of ight. It then becomes easy to catch the y. Such is the principle needed to catch the mind.

It is strange, but the mind is like a ghost. Some villagers used to be scared because every night in the distance they saw a ghost. One day, a strong army ofcer from the city visited them and he was told the story of the ghost. Being a rational and logical man, he marched along with the villagers to the ghost, only to nd that it was a post – a wooden stick with a ag like cloth uttering in the wind that scared the villagers. The rascal mind is also like a ghost. It appears, thinks, and makes us fear, worry and even dream. It terrorizes us with thoughts that paralyze

58
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

us, till we realize that it doesn't exist. It is like a ghost. How do we eliminate the controlling presence of the mind knowing that it is just like a ghost, an illusion?

Let us start with an analysis of death. Every human being has to die. Our body is not immortal. But what happens at death? The body dies, and it is said that the person passed away, departed, or moved on, and we are asked to pray for the departed soul. What exactly happened at death? Who passed away? What moved on? We can see the dead body lying in front of us, but we know that the person who was alive is no more. The life energy that existed in the person is missing.

Also, at death, we can't nd the mind. Where is the mind? When the life energy departed, the body died. There is no mind. It just appears to be a distinct entity – when in reality, it is a function or activity of the body. The truth is that we are not the body that dies. We are the life energy that departed at death. But the mind creates the ego and makes us believe that we are a complex of the body, mind, ego and soul, which is a myth. It even fools us into believing that it will be reborn based on its karma or past action and binds us into becoming the ego. In reality, we are pure life energy that departs at death and merges with the holistic energy as the body dissolves to dust. This realization destroys the mind. The mind doesn't exist!

59
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

It is strange, but the knowledge we possess is powerful enough to question the existence of the mind. But the rascal doesn't let us believe in this and continues to ght for its existence as our mind. It makes us believe that we are the mind, we are not different from the mind and continues to trick us. How can we be sure that we are different from the mind so that we can destroy it?

Our eyes see an elephant. The elephant is the object, and the eye is the subject. The object is different from the subject. The mind observes the eyes seeing the elephant. The eyes become the object, and the mind becomes the subject. Suddenly, I nd my mind wandering and I lose track of what the elephant is doing. The mind becomes the object, and I become the subject. I am different from the mind. I am not the mind; I have a mind that wanders and watches. But I am not the mind. It is a rascal that makes me believe that I am the mind. By now, I know that I am not the mind, and I also know that at death, I can't nd the mind. It doesn't seem to exist.

The mind makes us suffer as it makes us believe we are the ego, the body and the mind. It rmly establishes our identity by our name, nationality, occupation, nancial status and other things like the relationships we enjoy. When asked who we are, what do we say? "I am Williams. I am British. I am a millionaire with a PhD. I am married to

60
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

a lady from India and I have two children." It is our mind that brain washes us to say so, but this is not the truth.

The mind wants us to be the ego. The mind wants us to live in ignorance as body and mind because it knows the moment we realize we are not the body, mind, ego, we are something else, it ceases to exist. Therefore, the mind continuously makes us believe that we are the ego, we are this body, we are this mind. We are the ones who enjoy these relationships. All this is consciously done by the mind because it wants to envelop us in ignorance that will guarantee its own existence. Because of this, we suffer. We think that the mind is right and what the mind says is true and we blindly follow our mind.

The mind rst identies us as an ego and then makes us desire and crave. We want to be happy and we see happiness outside of us and become miserable every time we are disappointed in seeking and not getting what we want. But the truth is that we are not the mind, the body and the ego. We have already realized that we may have a mind, but we are not the mind. We also know that the body dies and we are not the body that dies. Then how can we be the ego – an entity without the body and without the mind? We are the life energy that gives life to this body mind complex and appears as a part of it as long as it is alive. It is the mind that makes us believe we are this entity

61
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

– when in reality, we are not. It is the rascal that is tricking us, and by doing so, the mind makes us suffer as the ego, the body, and the mind. If we carefully analyse with the help of our intellect, we will realize we are the life energy, not the ego mind body that seems to suffer because of the mind. We should kill the mind as soon as possible; otherwise it continues to make us suffer.

Today, even science endorses the theory that in reality, we are not the body. All along, science opposed the spiritual belief that we are not the bodies we seem to be. Science only believed in physical matter. Recently, science has discovered new theories that are endorsed by an old scientic formula. Einstein had stated several decades ago through his formula E = mc2 that energy can neither be created nor destroyed, but it can only be transformed from one form to another. Recently, this popular theory has been endorsed by another theory: Wave Particle Duality. Scientists were studying the smallest particle of matter under a microscope. Not just molecules or atoms, but very tiny particles – electrons, neutrons, protons and quarks. When a very tiny particle was being examined under a sophisticated microscope, they were abbergasted when they noticed that the particle of matter suddenly disappeared. As they were analysing and discussing the phenomenon, the particle reappeared. The scientists then concluded the existence of the new theory called Wave

62
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

Particle Duality. This theory stated that particles of matter can transform to energy and vice versa, in synergy with the principle of Einstein. Science now believes that a particle of matter and a wave of energy are not distinctly different as they can transform from one to the other. It only endorses the fact that we are not the body that we seem to be, but millions of energy particles that together appear as the body.

There is no doubt, therefore, that we are not the mind and we are not the body. There is no question of the existence of an ego. All this is a fairy tale produced by the rascal mind just like a dream that is unreal. Because it appears so real, we believe that it is true and we suffer. If our intellect rmly believes in the above realization, then the rascal mind is not permitted to exist. It is just like a ghost that imposes itself and forces us to accept its existence till we realize that it is an illusion.

We have two options: rst, to believe in the rascal mind and live as the body, ego, and mind and suffer; second, to realize the truth through the intellect that we are pure energy. This realization destroys the existence of the mind as a distinct entity.

The moment we use the intellect to destroy the existence of the rascal mind, it reacts and revolts, jumping from thought to thought like a monkey, distracting us, creating

63
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

fear and worry and pulling us away from the truth. It knows that if we realize the truth, it will be destroyed. The mind ghts hard to oppose the realization of the truth.

Why is it so difcult to destroy the mind? It is because the mind creates attachments with things and people, and in a way, it stops us from discriminating from what we are not. We are so attached to my spouse, my children, my family, my business, my money, my house, and my car that we are not able to believe that this "me" who is so caught up with "my" actually doesn't exist! In fact, the mind so rmly creates the belief that we are the ego mind body that it seems blasphemous even to think that we are anything other than the ego, mind, and body.

We appear as "me", but we are not the body, we are not the mind. We are the Holistic Energy. The moment the intellect realizes this truth, the mind is automatically destroyed. It doesn't exist! It is like the rainbow that appears, but when we try to touch it, we can't. It is like a mirage in the desert that appears to exist, but on coming closer to the mirage, we realize it is only an optical illusion. Believing in the existence of the illusion only creates misery, and the sooner we eliminate this belief, the sooner we can be at peace.

By effectively using the weapon of the intellect, the mind can be destroyed and we can be liberated. The intellect is

64
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

not used to kill the mind, but just to realize that the mind doesn't exist. It appears to exist, but it is an illusion. As long as we don't use the intellect to destroy the mind, it continues to constantly trouble us as we consider ourselves to be the physical body that suffers, the mind that experiences emotional pain, and the ego that is miserable, although in reality we are none of these. Then, why should we permit the mind to make us miserable?

Why can't we kill its illusionary existence through our intellect? We are unable to kill the illusionary existence of the mind because the mind envelops the intellect itself by making us so busy through our sense organs, and with the thoughts it produces. The mind bypasses the intellect and therefore doesn't let the intellect become the weapon that can destroy the illusions we live with.

If the intellect discriminates, it will realize that the mind is an illusion and it doesn't exist. But unfortunately, the intellect is not given a chance to discriminate. It is bypassed and bulldozed by the thousands of thoughts that stop it from destroying the existence of the illusionary mind.

The mind continues to make us believe that happiness is something that we must seek through fullling desires. It makes us desire and want and makes us go through a merry-go-round of happiness and unhappiness that keeps

65
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

going round in circles rather than directly leading us to destination happiness.

Essentially, we are happiness. We don't need to seek happiness. If the mind is destroyed and there are no negative thoughts, we can remain in a state of peace, bliss and joy. But to arrive at this state, we have to destroy the mind. Again and again, the intellect has to reiterate the truth that there is no mind. It is an illusory thief. It is just a function of the body, and this activity has no separate existence. The moment we eliminate the mind, we eliminate the monkey that jumps from thought to thought and we abide in a state of peace and joy.

We need to make the monkey a monk. If we truly want to kill the mind, we don't need guns or nuclear weapons. We can do it through simple meditation. How? Real meditation is reducing what can be referred to as the MTR – "Mental Thought Rate", which is the rate at which the mind produces thoughts. As long as the mind is producing 50 thoughts a minute, it is impossible to catch the culprit. But the moment we meditate, the speed of thought production decreases. It is just like pressing the brake in a vehicle and the mind comes to a near halt. Meditation is possible by various methods. It may be focusing our attention on breathing or on the ame of a candle or on a particular thought or even a scene like waves lashing on a rock. When a mind is forced to meditate on one particular

66
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

thought, it stops jumping like a monkey, and thus, the mind becomes a monk. This may sound too simple a method to kill the monkey, but the global popularity of meditation only reiterates the truth that one can get temporary peace through meditation. This is because we put the mind into a temporary coma. But what happens after the meditation? The monk once again becomes the monkey, and we are ruined by our own thoughts. It is not possible to remain in meditation all the time. Even if you try it, the meditation will soon become ineffective because the monkey is impatient and doesn't remain a monk for long. The only way to transform the monkey into a monk is to kill our ignorance with the sword of realization of truth. Then we will be free from the constant monkey business and dwell in a domain of "monk-like" peace.

If we really want to kill our monkey mind, we must go on a quest to nd it. We must do an in-depth study of the body and its creation – the mind and the ego. We will be surprised when we go backwards to the birth of a child, even backwards to the formation of a zygote when a sperm fuses with an ovum. Our quest will make us realize that the mind doesn't exist. Only the brain exists with its billions of neurons, which is beyond human comprehension. How this human body functions is a wonder of wonders. But this investigation will help us eliminate the monkey.

When we try to contemplate the universe – the sun, the

67
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

moon, the stars, the birds, the animals, and the owers – we wonder: how did all this come about? It is said that it all came about from a Big Bang, but how did the Big Bang happen? This research will lead us to realize through inference that everything is a manifestation of universal energy, and in reality, the mind doesn't exist. Some things can't be proved through empirical evidence, but can be understood and realized by inference using the intellect.

We human beings want to be happy. We do anything and everything possible to get happiness, but unfortunately, we are constantly shuttling between being glad and being sad. Why? Because of the mind. It is the mind that gives us happiness, but no sooner than our celebration, we descend in gloom. Such is the rascal! When we realize that we don't need to seek happiness outside, we bask in the sunshine of everlasting bliss and joy. But the mind prevents this through its mischief. It makes us behave like the musk deer. All through life, the musk deer passionately seeks the fragrance of the musk, which actually lies in the receptacle of its own navel. It goes round and round in a frenzy searching for the perfume till it nally falls off the cliff and dies. The hunters tear open the navel and retrieve the musk. The mind makes us behave like the musk deer searching for happiness outside by withholding the knowledge that happiness is inside us, and we essentially are happiness. The moment we realize we are happiness,

68
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

we don't need to follow the mind and chase happiness. We can shoot it down and just remain in a state of Nirvana, ultimate bliss!

Since the mind actually doesn't exist, but its existence is like that of a rascal, we should destroy it. As long as it is the commander of our life, we are its slave. It is time to reverse the roles and make the mind our slave.

Somebody put it very beautifully that our life is driven by 5 horses, our 5 senses. These 5 horses are controlled by the reins – the mind. The mind drives us towards sensual pleasures as it controls our sense organs as we live. What should we do? We should introduce a charioteer that takes charge of the mind, and drives the senses in a different direction to give us peace and joy. The charioteer is the intellect.

The intellect must supersede the mind. This happens with the realization of the truth and by various control measures that transcend the mind. That is the only way to kill the mind even though we are alive and make it like a dormant volcano.

The rst challenge is to quieten the mind to make it stop producing countless thoughts minute by minute. There are various methods to achieve this, including meditation, music or even being absorbed in something that quietens

69
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

the mind. The intellect should make a conscious decision to quieten the mind because an agitated mind can become an uncontrolled rascal.

The real process of slaying the mind is through discrimination. The intellect is the sharp sword that can slay the mind. It is through various methods that the intellect realizes that we are not the body, we are not even the mind. What are we?

By now, we are clear that the mind is not king. We are also clear that it is a rascal, and we have absolutely no doubt that we have to kill the rascal before it kills us. We have also realized that to kill the rascal, we need no weapons of war. We just need to realize the truth of who we are and who we are not. We just need one weapon: the intellect! Till now, we believed that the mind is king. But soon we will realize it is the intellect that is king and not the mind. With the help of the intellect, we can destroy the rascal by the simple realization of the truth.

The rst realization is to realize what we are not. I am not you. I am not this table and chair. I am not even my house or my car. Neither am I my clothes. I only wear the clothes. The intellect realizes that I also wear a body and mind. I am not the body and mind. This simple realization eliminates the existence of the mind.

70
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

To reinforce what we are not, the intellect uses another realization of who we are. Am I the face that I can touch and feel or am I the face in the mirror? The intellect knows that the mirror is only a reection. With a little more investigation, the intellect realizes that the body mind is only a reected consciousness of my true identity. Our true identity is energy, trillions of particles of energy that together look like the human body. But we are not the human body nor the mind. We are energy. Energy is the cause, the body and mind are effects. Energy is like the mud that appears as a mud pot or as a mud statue. In reality, it is neither a pot nor a statue. It is only mud but the rascal mind does not permit us to see the mud. It perceives it as a pot or a statue. Such is the power of the mind. It can make us think what it wants, although the reality is something else.

When we look at a gold ring, a gold chain or a gold bangle, the mind calls it ring, chain and bangle. But the intellect knows that it is just gold. It appears as jewellery, but if you remove the gold, it is nothing. Gold is the cause, and the pieces of jewellery are just effects. When the intellect realizes that the body mind is nothing, it turns to dust, it realizes that we are energy and nothing else. Energy is the cause! The body with the mental activity is just the effect. At death, when the energy departs, just like when you melt the jewellery and the gold is removed, nothing remains. So also, nothing in us remains when the energy

71
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

departs at death. The intellect, with its simple investigation, destroys the terrorizing mind and its existence. If you remove mud from a pot or from a statue what will remain? Nothing! It seems like a silly question but it is the rascal mind that makes us silly all through life.

The intellect uses scientic discovery to reinforce its discrimination that we are nothing but energy that appear as a physical body and a mind. As long as the intellect doesn't realize that the mind is a myth, the mind dominates our life with its presence and showers us with miseries of the body, mind, and ego. But the realization of the truth destroys the suffering in a ash. This is because the energy doesn't suffer. We are inside the body mind complex that is lead by an ego. The ego is hurt. The body can suffer, the mind can become miserable but when the intellect realizes we are none of the three, we are freed from misery and pain. It is like us being inside a car that has an accident. The car is smashed but nothing happens to us. Of course, we are impacted by the crash because we are inside the car but we do not experience the damage the car experiences. It is only the intellect that with its realization can make us escape from misery and pain.

All the methods above when followed by the intellect convince us that the mind doesn't exist. It is an imposter. It is fake. But it still exists as a rascal.

72
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

Even though we have all the knowledge, the rascal is like an immortal beast. It doesn't give up. It continues to surface provoking the ego, tickling the senses and pulling us back into the world. Although we have killed the mind, it doesn't die. As long as we are alive, it exists. Therefore, in reality, we can never kill it. We can only transcend it.

If we do not transcend the mind, it will kill us, destroy us, and make us live as the ego, body and mind. We will suffer again and again, not just in this life, but life after life. However, the reward of killing the mind is liberation – liberation from experiencing the cycle of death and rebirth.

Not everybody is fortunate enough to realize the truth. In fact less than 1% of humanity even go on a quest to nd the truth. From that tiny minority, 1% get the knowledge that the mind is a rascal, but they do not kill the rascal. Barely 1% of those who acknowledge the rascal mind are able to transcend it. This is because the mind opposes such a realization. It constantly ghts the battle with the intellect because it wants to survive. It doesn't want us to overcome the ignorance and be liberated as this will defeat and dissolve the rascal itself. Thus, it is rare to nd people who have killed the rascal mind.

It is not easy to kill the rascal, I must admit! I too have a

73
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

rascal mind that doesn't sit quiet. Even though I pin it down, it pushes its way up. It continues to rumble and mumble and disturb my peace even though it is only for a moment. But each day, I am becoming stronger than my rascal mind, and it is becoming weaker and weaker.

Such is the game of "Kill the rascal mind." As long as we are alive, it cannot be completely destroyed. But when we transcend it, we disable it from destroying our peace.

Instead of paying attention to the mind, I strengthen my intellect. It uses the memory, but doesn't provoke the ego, nor does it tickle the monkey to think. The intellect constantly makes me realize that I am not the body and I am not the mind. Although I have a body and it has an activity called the mind, these are not me. I am happiness and peace. I don't seek bliss because bliss is my essential nature. It is a rascal that comes alive and robs my peace by creating ripples of thought. Therefore, when I tie the rascal down and reduce an array of thoughts, I remain peaceful.

Another method of living in peace is to surrender and accept the divine drama all around me. This takes away the agitation of the mind and lets me just ow like the breeze. The intellect realizes that everything happening is a Cosmic Drama. Nothing is real. This also helps in transcending the mind.

74
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

A human being has been given limited comprehension, and we are unable to comprehend beyond a point. If I ask you to close your eyes and see me with your ears, can you do it? You would say it is impossible to see with the ears because only the eyes have been given the power to comprehend sight. Similarly, we human beings can only comprehend this much that the mind is a rascal, nothing more. We should learn to transcend it and kill it if we truly want to be happy. Our goal of life is happiness, and we achieve ultimate bliss when we destroy the mind. This liberates us from prisons of misery and sorrow.

Because of various beliefs, different people believe in different theologies and philosophies of life, and it is not easy for people to transform their thoughts. We have been so programmed that in order to realize that the mind is rascal and kill it, we have to completely reprogram ourselves. Otherwise we will never accept the fact that the mind is a rascal and that it must be destroyed.

It is not possible to realize that the mind is a rascal and transcend it without the help of a mentor and master, who can guide us, guard us and lead us forward. I would have never been able to transcend the mind without my guru, my Master. Whenever the mind tricked me with its mischievous behaviour, I would question my Master and he would resolve my misunderstanding till I nally

75
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

realized the truth. It was my Master who helped me capture my illusory mind.

I also believe that it was not just my effort and the guidance of my Master, but also the grace of the Cosmic Power, the Creator that has permitted me to capture the rascal and live with ultimate joy and peace. By inference, we know there is a Creator – a Power that exists. Everything around us, the sun, the moon, the stars, the birds, the animals and the owers couldn't have happened by accident. They are too beautiful and too creative, and no doubt, all these are the works of a Creative Power – a Power that is omnipresent and omniscient. We need the grace of this Power to kill the rascal mind. I believe I am fortunate, for I bow down before the Power, I love the Power and I surrender to the Power completely. Faith, Hope, Trust and Enthusiasm are the four pillars that we need to rest upon to invoke the grace of the Power to destroy the rascal mind.

Is it difcult to kill a mosquito? No! But it is not as easy to kill a snake. It is extremely difcult to kill the rascal mind. If there was a terrorist in front of you and you were given an automatic gun, you could just shoot him down. But how can you shoot down a mind that doesn't exist. It is a big challenge!

However, this is the primary purpose of our life – to realize

76
    Kill The Rascal Before It Kills You!

the truth that the mind is a rascal and to destroy it. We think the goal of life is happiness. Of course, it is! But how can we be happy with the presence of a rascal mind. It constantly makes us unhappy, and with its deep and dark ignorance, it ensures we are unhappy for eternity. We should beware the mind. We human beings put up boards

– "Beware of Dogs". But what can dogs do? They just give us happiness, but the mind is a robber of happiness. We need to put a big board wherever we can to remind us – "Beware of the mind!" Till such time that the intellect takes over as the dominating subtle activity of our life, we continue to be slaves of the mind.

In reality, as long as we are alive, we cannot kill the mind completely. But we can destroy its dominant aggression on our life and virtually kill the rascal. It's possible!

How did I kill my rascal mind?

If I Don't Kill the Rascal

The Rascal will Kill Me!

77

PART D

Did I Kill My

Rascal Mind?

78
    Did I Kill My Rascal Mind?

When did I realize that my mind was a rascal? I too thought my mind was king but one day when I went on a quest to nd out what is the ultimate peak of happiness, I realized the truth. As I went on a quest to nd out who I am, I realized I was not this body. I also realized I was not this mind. In fact, the mind did not exist, and I found that the mind was the biggest enemy that stopped me from realizing this truth. As I went on a quest, it became more and more clear that the mind was an illusion.

The moment I realized that the mind is an illusion, as it continued to be a rascal trying to destroy and hide the truth, I made a commitment to destroy it. I rst tried to nd it. I realized that it is not there. I realized that I am not the body, not the mind, I am nothing but pure energy. The mind doesn't exist. It is like a rainbow. It seems to exist, but it is an illusion. It's like a mirage in the desert. We cannot touch it, catch it or capture it because it doesn't exist.

Even after the realization of the truth, the illusory rascal still lives. Even after my knowing that the mind is an illusion, a rascal, a mischievous monkey, it doesn't sit quiet. It continues to produce thoughts. It thinks, it desires, it dreams, and it troubles me. It holds me back from the realization of the truth. The knowledge of realization exists in me, but my rascal mind doesn't let me be quiet. It still craves, and tries to fool me into being the mind which I

79
    Did I Kill My Rascal Mind?

am not. It still tries to destroy me and my realization because it wants to exist. It knows that the moment I completely realize the truth, it will be destroyed.

When I rst realized that my mind was a rascal, I could not believe it. I always took pride in my mind. I felt my subconscious mind was so sharp, and I even advocated the power of my superconscious mind. I never knew that the mind was different from the intellect. I always believed that the mind, the memory and intellect were part of the subtle me. In fact, I always thought I was the mind and the mind was me.

Even though I knew that my mind was a rascal and I tried to transcend it, it never submitted to my knowledge of realization. Every time I pinned it down, it jumped back up, like a monkey distracting me or like a greedy pig desiring and craving for pleasure that didn't make me truly happy.

I was challenged with a constant war within, a battle between me and my rascal mind. Luckily, by then, I had taken charge of my intellect. I constantly used its power of discrimination to create a very strong will power as it tamed the monkey into a monk. But I must admit that the monkey will always remain a monkey. Even though the mind is subdued through meditation, silence, or spiritual

80
    Did I Kill My Rascal Mind?

music, it doesn't stop its monkey tricks every now and then. When I reect on my life, I know that I have been a very happy man, no doubt! But whatever misery I had – all my anxious moments, my stress, and my tensions – they were due to the mind. Its art of imagining fears, its habit of worrying, and its relentless dreaming together created enough misery for me. I resolved to be peaceful and joyous with my realization of the truth. Today, whenever my rascal mind jumps like a monkey, I do not react. Through my intellect, I acknowledge the tricks of the mischievous mind and I discriminate and choose an attitude of peace and joy. I constantly try to make the monkey into a monk.

I did many things that are strange. I stopped reading the newspaper, even stopped watching television and absorbed only relevant headline news through dependable sources. All this helped me tame my mind's agitation. I changed my habits from those that led to agitation to those that gave me peace. I ignored all those illusions that my intellect acknowledged were nothing but part of a cosmic drama that hardly mattered.

What mattered to me was to live in joy, bliss and peace – a state of Nirvana. This state was within me. I didn't let my rascal mind roam like the musk deer which is seeking happiness outside. I realized that I can just be blissful without much effort.

81
    Did I Kill My Rascal Mind?

The battle with the mind will continue till death. I realize that the mind will not be destroyed as long as there is breath. Such is this magical creation of human life on earth. We are the energy that gives life to the body, but till the energy is alive in the body, the illusory mind, which is nothing but a rascal, continues to live, to think, to wander and to trouble. The war continues, the battle continues, between me and the rascal mind. I am committed to kill the rascal mind, but it is not an easy battle.

Even though I know that I am not the body and mind but the Divine Spirit, the mind refuses to accept it. It uses the senses to crave. It produces thoughts to make me wander. It tries to pull me into the world of objects and things. It desires, craves and lusts for things. It makes me feel I must do my duty, and it makes me worry living in shame. All this is the war between the mind and the intellect, between me and my enemy, the mind. I keep trying to shoot down every meaningless thought with the powerful weapon I have – the intellect. I try to pray and to meditate. I try to cage the monkey. But the battle continues. I keep shooting down the monkey mind every time it pops its head up, but I realize that the mind cannot be destroyed till I am alive. Therefore, this battle will continue. But I will never give up because I realize my biggest enemy is this illusion, which is the mind, and although it continues to ght the battle with me, it cannot destroy me because it does not exist!

82
    Did I Kill My Rascal Mind?

I acknowledge that my mind is a rascal. It is my enemy. It is the jumping monkey that gives me stress, and while I agree that we cannot completely kill the monkey mind, we can sedate it and deactivate its grasp on our life. It is not easy. It takes a lot of time and effort, but it started with me realizing that my mind was not king. It was a rascal, and I resolved to kill the rascal, to make the monkey into a monk.

Anybody who wants to be truly happy needs to realize that the mind is a monkey, a rascal and a thief.

Mind your mind, or your mind will mind you.

Take charge of your mind, or your mind will take charge of you.

Kill your mind, or your mind will kill you.

The choice is yours!

It's a Monkey, it's a Rascal, it's a Thief

My Mind

When I want to Kill it, where it is

I cannot find!

83
    POEM

POEM

Can You Find The Rascal Mind?

My mind is king; I thought it is everything!

It makes me blink; it makes me think

It gives me joy until I die

The only problem with my mind... Where it is, I cannot nd!

It is my memory; it is my mind

It is my intellect - one of a kind

My greatest treasure is my mind

The only problem with my mind...

Where it is, I cannot nd!

The body I can see; the body I can nd

Likewise I am sure; I have a mind

It is not yours; I know it is mine

The only problem with my mind...

Where it is, I cannot nd!

84
    POEM

Suddenly, I realize these are not my mind...

My intellect and my memory are of a different kind My mind is a monkey; a rascal my mind

The only problem with my mind... Where it is I, cannot nd!

I then resolved to kill my mind

The rascal I vowed, I must grind

It made me worry; it made me fear

Enough my dear, no more tear

The only problem with my mind...

Where it is, I cannot nd!

I made my intellect rule my mind

I shot down thoughts of a monkey kind

I wanted joy and peace of mind

No more my king, my rascal mind

I realized then there was no mind...

It was a rascal! No need to nd!

AiR

85

About The Author - AiR

86
    About the Author - AiR

AiR – Atman in Ravi, or the Soul in Ravi, is an embodied soul whose only mission in life is to realize the Truth and help people realize the Truth.

He was born on October 15, 1966 in Bangalore, as Ravi V. Melwani. At a very young age, he mastered the craft of business and became a very successful businessman who revolutionized retailing in India with the stores Kids Kemp, Big Kids Kemp, and Kemp Fort.

After making millions, he realized that life is not just about making money. He shut down his business at the age of 40, transformed his life to RVM living by the RVM philosophy

– Rejoice, Value Life, and Make a Difference. He started doing H.I.S. work – Humanitarian, Inspirational and Spiritual work. His mission was to "Make a Difference" in this world before his journey was over.

As a part of RVM's humanitarian initiative, RVM Humanitarian Hospital was set up in 1998 with an aim to provide free medical treatment and care to the poor, destitute, and needy. The hospital has no cash counter. From the current 250-bed hospital, it will soon grow into a multispecialty 1000-bed hospital for the poor and destitute. Over 700 homeless and suffering people are served and cared for in destitute homes providing free shelter, food, medical care, and clothing.

87
    About the Author - AiR

RVM, through the RVM School of Inspiration, has transformed the lives of many people through his motivating talks, inspirational books and videos, and thought-provoking quotes.

RVM built a Shiva Temple in the year 1995 in Bangalore, which is now known as the Shivoham Shiva Temple. Being an ardent believer in Lord Shiva for long, he has written and sung about a thousand bhajans – songs of devotion. He now believes that religion is just a kindergarten of spirituality, and we all have to go beyond religion to truly realize God.

One day, his Guru provoked him to introspect: What is the purpose of life? Is life just meant to seek pleasures and to live and die without any purpose? What happens after death? Will we be reborn? Where is God? Several questions like these took him on a quest, a search for the truth. He gave up his life of Achievement and Fullment in search of the nal peak of life: "Enlightenment".

After a few years of intense search in silence, deep in the mountains, he realised that we are not this body. We are the Soul, the Atman. He changed his name for the second time from RVM to AiR – the Atman in Ravi (the Soul in Ravi). He metamorphosed to AiR and gave up his entire life as Ravi. He started the study of Life and God. This led

88
    About the Author - AiR

to several realizations that formed his new mission of life – to realize the Truth and to help people realize the Truth.

BOOKS BY THE AUTHOR – AiR

  1. Talaash – A search for the true meaning of life. Discover your true self.

This book by AiR is his personal journey to realize the truth. It is a journey to realize that there are 3

peaks of happiness, that we are not the body and the mind that we seem to be. We are a power. A power that is Omnipresent, Omnipotent and Omniscient. This search and quest by AiR made him transform his

life. It is a journey that made him realize the truth. It can become a book that can lead you to liberation.

  2. 3 Peaks of Happiness

3 Peaks of Happiness by AiR is a simple book that talks about the quest of all humanity. Everybody wants to be happy. But is everybody happy? No. Because we are stuck on the rst peak of happiness – Achievement. 20% of the people are lucky to go to the second

peak of happiness – Fulllment, that comes from contentment. But there is a third peak beyond. The third

89
peak of happiness will liberate you from the prisons of misery and sorrow and give you eternal Joy and Bliss.

  3. My Guru, My Mentor, My God on Earth

My Guru, My Mentor, My God on Earth is a book by AiR in which he shares his experiences with his Guru who is not just his Guru and Mentor but also his God on Earth. We all need a coach, a teacher to live life and this book 'My Guru' will inspire you to nd your Guru or to make your relationship with your Guru more fullling and meaningful.

4. I will Never Die. Death is not "The End"

In the journey of his life, AiR realized many truths. One of the truth was that he would never die. The body will die but the one who lives in the body never dies. We are not the bodies that we wear, we are the ones who wear the body. Death is not the end. It is a bend to transcend. This book shows the truth about Death.

  5. Death is Not "The End". Death is "Liberation"

Death is Not "The End". Death is "Liberation", is the

90
second book in the series of books on death by AiR. It touches upon the secret of the Kathopanishad, which talks about what happens at death. One of two things happens – if we think we are the body and mind as a doer, we are reborn. But if we think we are not the body and mind but we are the energy, we are liberated to eternal Joy and Peace.

  6. I am not I. Who am I?

I am not I. Who am I? - is a very interesting book by AiR which talks of his quest and realization that

we are not who we think we are. We have a house but we are not the house. We have a car but we are not the car. We have a body but we are not the body. We have a mind but we are not the mind. Who are we? Discover the truth.

  7. The Cosmic Drama (Coming soon)

||Om Namah Shivaya|| ||Shivoham||

Visit   or Scan the QR Code to download the AiR - Atman in Ravi App. www.air.ind.in | air@rvm.co.in

91
 THE MIND IS A RASCAL! KILL IT!!

I was shocked to realize this! I always thought my Mind was King. It was everything. It gave me thoughts, ideas and inspiration until I realized the Truth!

The mind is a monkey. It keeps jumping from one thought to another. It thinks up to 50 thoughts a minute! The mind makes me worry and fear with a stream of negative thoughts.

After deep contemplation, I realized that my mind is not my intellect. It is not my memory. It is just my thought factory that produces thoughts. It is not me! In fact, I realized that the mind does not exist!

Have you ever seen your mind? You know it exists, but where is it? The mind is an illusion. It's just a function of the body. It's just a mischievous rascal that makes us live and die in ignorance.

It's time to realize the Truth. It's time to kill the rascal mind. If we don't, it will continue to make us miserable and unhappy and nally kill us!

Kemp Fort Mall, #97, Old Airport Road,

Bangalore - 560017

www.air.ind.in | air@rvm.co.in

92
