 
THE

POETIC

LOUNGE

Volume Two

Poetry & Short Stories

Compiled by:

Fiordaliza Charles

http://authorfcharles.com

http://facebook.com/Fcharles30

authorfcharles@gmail.com

Charron Monaye

http://authorcharronmonaye.com

http://facebook.com/charronmonaye

Charron.monaye@gmail.com

Contents 1

INTRODUCTION

DEDICATION

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

ALBERT A. OLOFINNIKA

I'LL KEEP SAILING

HEALER OF THOUSAND DISEASES

A LITTLE PATIENCE

ANTINEA CARPENTER

I JUST CANT STOP LOVING YOU

APRIL DEEP ARIES

I WANNA KNOW

C. HIGHSMITH-HOOKS

RECONCILIATION

CALVIN HENDERSON

IF ONLY TEARS CAN TELL....

NEVER SETTLER FOR LESS

THE JESUS IN ME

CARLET HORNE

SOW GOOD

I AM ME

THE JOURNEY

CHARRON MONAYE

SURVIVAL

GIVING BACK

MOVING ON

ALTER EGO

POETRY IN MOTION

CHERYL D FAISON

LOVE SURRENDER

BITTER BEAUTY

POETIC SEDUCTION

DARCOVA TRIPLETT  
THE UNDENIABLE CONNECTION

JUST KEEPIN IT REAL

SPIRITUAL INSANITY

DAMIAN KNOX

**I** **NTENSITY WANING**

**Contents 2**

**DEBRA ELLIOT**

**GRACEFULLY**

**IF ONLY WE HAD ONE MORE DAY**

**GROW OLD WITH ME**

DONNA BALLARD CARTER

LOVE SONNETS

EMMANUEL BROWN

GOOD DAY BAD MOMENTS

FABILOA SULLY

FEAR

MARITZA

BAG LADY FIORDALIZA CHARLES

THE THRILL IS GONE

NOT ANYMORE

I'M FED UP

WITH OUT YOU

I'M SO TIRED

JOYCE P JONES

I AM

KATRINA GURL

RATED R TO X KELLI GARDEN

HONORED VOWS

LOST MEMORY

SEASON OF CHANGE

LESLIE B. POLLARD

SALVATION UNCONDITIONALLY

LONNIESHA JACKSON

NOSY HEART

WHEN WILL IT ALL BE OVER

THEIR DADDY

LUELLA HILL-DUDLEY

PERFECT STRANGERS

MARQUES LEWIS

WEAK

MARZANA ISLAM

LENDING HAND

**Contents 3**

UNDER THE BLOSSON TREE

YOUR REMEMBERANCE

PATRICIA "CHINA" HUNT

I'M NOT GONNA SAY

MY ANGEL

BODIES COLLIDE

DIRTY THOUGHTS

RAMONA JONES

UNRELENTING PASSION

DO YOU THINK I'M THE ONE?

TAKEN FOR GRANTED

RICO REVELS

INTERNAL RELATIONSHIP SERVICE

WITHOUT YOU

SEASONS OF LIFE

ROBERTO D. STYLES

SECRET LOGINGS

LETTER TO THE POTTER

WONDERING, DO YOU?

SEAN STEWART

DANCING WITH MOUNTAINS

SHANTA L DAVIS

BOUNDERIES

LONELINESS

WALK AWAY

SOMETHINGS YOU JUST CANT HAVE

TANIESHA GRACE

WHAT AM I? WHO AM I?

THORNNE .E. XAIVIANTT

SACRIFICE

THE TRANCE

TIFFANY CHRISTINA LEWIS

SPRING BREAK

URBAN POET

DIARY OF A WOMAN (WRITTEN BY A MAN)

ABUSED

STATUE OF LIBERTY...

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

LETTER TO THE READERS

Introdution

The T.P.L Project" was an idea that CEO'S Fiordaliza Charles and Charron Monaye came up with when they noticed so many talented poets/writers in their Facebook network that may not have been published. This concept gave them the platform needed to help showcase as many poets and writers worldwide.

"We are very fortunate to have come across so many talented and truly amazing poets and writers. We will like to thank all that contributed in the making of this project and to build a book of everlasting memories"

Thank You !

Acknowledgment

We would like to thank God for yet another opportunity to bring together some of the most talented and gifted poets and writers. We hope that everyone continues to bless us with their stories, feedback and encouragement so that we can continue to bring you books filled with unforgettable poetry and stories.

I hope that we have met all of your expectations.

Thank you for your continuous support!

The Poetic Lounge Vol. Two ~ December 2011

Dedication

This book is dedicated to our readers and contributing poets and writers because without neither of you, this book would seize to exist

ALBERT

A.

OLOFINNIKA

I'LL KEEP SAILING

Though the tide blows rough and tough,

And the tempest rages long and strong,

I'll keep sailing on and on.

The sea might be slide and wide,

And could be noisome and troublesome,

I'll keep sailing on and on.

Even when my strength is small and fall,

There's no going back or slack,

I'll keep sailing on and on.

Till I see the light right and bright,

And get the primed prize and rise,

I'll keep sailing on and on.

HEALER OF A THOUSAND DISEASES

He makes the blind to see

And the deaf to hear,

In His name; demons do flee,

And in mercy; draws sinners near.

He makes the lame to walk

And the dumb to speak,

To heal; He won't balk,

And to deliver; He's never weak.

He takes away insanity

And heals paralysis,

From sin; He frees humanity,

And from death; He immortalizes.

He heals issue of blood

And even raise the dead,

The lost plunge in the flood

And in hope raise his head.

He's a father and savior to all of us

And can heal all manner of diseases,

His name is JESUS,

And He's 'healer of a thousand diseases'.

A LITTLE PATIENCE

A little patience,

Tomorrow shall come

And you'll be a day older.

Just a little patience,

The egg shall hatch

And the chick shall be cock.

A little patience,

The night will be over

And morning shall come.

Just a little patience,

What shall come shall come

And will not wait.

A little patience,

What was lost could be found

And be possessed again.

Just a little patience,

You'll have your wish

And your dreams come true.

A little patience,

What looks scanty will be plenty

And be more than enough.

Just a little patience,

What was planted would be ripe

And ready for harvest.

ANTINEA

CARPENTER

I JUST CAN'T STOP LOVING YOU

I cannot believe after 14 years i am staring at the only woman I have loved besides my mother. I couldn't move and was in a trance until she spoke to me and snapped me back into reality.

"Arthur? It is has been a long, long time. How have you been?"

"I have been doing good Lilly, thanks for asking. Can I just hug you girl? You are as beautiful as ever. You haven't changed a bit. Still sexy!

I go into hug her and feel the bulge in my pants grow. She smelled and felt so damn good, I was about to bust a nut right there in the middle of the store. She must have felt my bulge because when she backed away from our embrace, she was blushing.

"I have some free time, would you like to go somewhere and catch up?'

"I would love to, and great thing, my girls are out of town, so we could just go back to my house and I can make some coffee. Sound like a plan?"

I wanted to say I will do anything you ask, even be your love slave, but I kept my cool and just shook my head and smiled.

"You want to follow me to my house? It's not that far from here."

"Sure, Lilly, just lead the way."

I followed her but was lost in thought. I loved this woman most of my life, but things didn't work out for us. I married my son's mother and she went on with her life. I thought about her daily and I always loved

her more than life itself. No other woman ever made me feel like her on no level.

And the sex was just like I liked it, freaky and plentiful. I have had a lot of sex in my day and no woman could ever hang with me, but Lilly was my teacher and my student. She was just as hungry for me as I was for her, any given day. I was so lost in thought I didn't even realize we were turning into a beautiful housing complex. I followed her to a two story brick house with a double garage and a winding driveway. Lilly was doing well for herself.

"Come on in Arthur and make yourself at home while I freshen up a bit. I have cold drinks and beer in the fridge and some Grey Goose in the bar. I know it used to be your favorite."

We exchange smiles and my bulge continues to grow. I wonder if this woman knows what she does to me. I sat there for about 15 minutes flipping the channel and sipping on the Grey Goose when Lilly walked out butt naked with some black heels on. I almost dropped my drink.

"Arthur, don't look shocked. I felt you get hard when we hugged. I had to come home and get myself together because you had me hot as hell. I want you. I have always wanted you. No man has ever satisfied me like you. No man has ever given me pleasure the way you have. We just fit and everybody knows that. My husband left me because he said I wasn't there for him emotionally, I know now that was because all I wanted was you. I can't let you get away from me again. Arthur, I want you!"

I got off the chair I was in and went and wrapped my arms around her. I kissed her neck and tried to inhale her lips with each kiss I planted on her lips. My hands wandered all over her beautiful brown body and when my hands found her sweet wet spot, I tried to put my whole hand into her. Her moans drove me insane and only motivated me more. She began to undress me and I helped. I couldn't seem to get naked fast enough, but as soon as I was, Lilly dropped

down and began giving my manhood a mean licking. It had been so long since I had gotten some head, I came instantly, but just like a pro, that didn't stop Lilly from licking me back hard again.

"You are being selfish, let me please you."

I bent her over the couch and ate her out from behind. She moaned and screamed my name but I couldn't stop, she tasted too good. How could any woman taste so damn good? I kept licking her swollen clit and she kept coming. I felt like I was in heaven because I dreamed of this moment so many times. I got up to my feet and penetrated her doggy style. I got my rhythm will her so fast, it was like we just had sex yesterday instead of 14 years ago. How can any woman feel so good? She screamed when I went into her and that just inspired me. Then she began talking dirty to me which blew my mind.

"Come on daddy, fuck this pussy! This is and always will be your pussy."

I lost my damn mind and started bucking as fast as I could. She turned and dropped to her knees and began sucking my manhood for dear life. I love this

woman. Then she pushed me back onto the soft carpet and straddled me.

"I have dreamed of riding this dick for a long time."

All I could do was close my eyes and lay my head back; I knew I was in for a treat. She positioned herself on top of my dick and smoothly slides

down my pole. I almost bust a nut right then, but was able to hold on a while longer. She slide up and down and wiggled all around. I kissed her breast and nibble her neck. She had already blown my mind and now I was on the break of insanity. She propped herself on her feet and rode my dick better than any woman has ever tried. Lilly was my porn star, my perfect

fit. I loved the pleasure she gave me and it took all I had in me not to give out, because she was wearing my ass out. I

flipped her onto her back and began eating her out again. This woman tasted like heaven. She scratched, squirmed and said my name over and over again, and that did was motivate me more. She begged me not to stop and I didn't. For the next twenty minutes I ate her pussy until she almost passed out. We laid there on her plush carpet trying to catch our breaths and smiling. I rolled over and called her name.

"Lilly?"

"Yes?"

"Will you marry me?"

"Yes!"

I rolled over to look in her face to see if she was serious. But what I saw, I was ready for. She was crying.

"Why are you crying?

Did I do something wrong? Was I too pushy?"

"Of course not. It's just I have been waiting for this moment for so long and now it's here. These are tears of joy, Arthur. I am so in love with you."

I reached over and wrapped her in my arms and kissed the top of her beautiful head. This was the only woman for me and we knew it and anyone that came into our lives, knew it as well. I kissed her cheek and then her chin. She moved her hands down my chest and started rubbing on my manhood. Before I knew it I was moaning again. Lilly started kissing my chest and licking me from head to toe, all I could do was moan her name. Then before I knew it, she had my entire dick in her mouth and down her throat. I felt my body start to shake and a nut coming to the surfaced. Lilly didn't lose a drop and swallowed all I let go of.

I couldn't be out done so I laid her on her back and put her legs over my shoulder and began all I could eat buffet. I stuck one finger, then two into her beautiful round ass and felt her squirm like she was trying to get away, but I tightened my grip on her big pretty thighs and kept pleasing her.

"Damn, daddy, what you trying to do to me? I can't stop coming."

"I am trying to make you mine baby girl. I want to keep you satisfied."

"I'm yours daddy, I promise you, I am never leaving your side again.

Please don't ever stop!"

"No worries, baby, no worries."

I flipped her over and began licking her body up and down and stuck my touch into her pretty light skinned butt. Even her ass tasted good, this woman was amazing. She screamed and squirmed and then I penetrated her again from the back. I ran my fingers through her hair and she asked me to pull it. Damn, I love this woman.

"Pull my hair daddy, pop my ass, and don't stop!"

That was all the motivated I needed and I fucked her like it was the last time I would ever feel the inside of her pussy. She moaned, I moaned, but I wasn't done with her yet. I went back to taste her paradise and let her cum run down my throat. She was exactly what I wanted and need; she was a nasty freak, just like me.

We made love and fucked all over her living room for the next 3 hours. Enjoying pleasing each other to no end. We took a shower and then she made us some dinner, but before we could finish eating, Lilly slide under the table and began sucking my dick like tomorrow wasn't promised. I had never had my dick sucked at the dinner

table, but it seemed with Lilly back in my life, I would do a lot the things I only dreamed about. She sucked, licked and teased my dick under that table, for what seemed like hours. I don't think I ever came so many times in my life and I wasn't complaining one bit. After she was done giving me some incredible head, Lilly walked into the living room with me following behind like a love sick puppy, sat on the couch, opened her legs and began to play with herself. I stood there almost in shock, because women just were not this comfortable with their sexuality to be so open when it came to sex. But my Lilly was an original piece of work. I stood there watching and rubbing my dick, when she reached behind the pillow on the couch and pulled out a red dildo and began licking it while her other hand was deep in her pussy. I did all I could not to lose my mind. This woman was something else. I watched as she took the dildo from her sexy lips, to her pussy, which was dripping by now, and gently moved, in and out of her pussy. I couldn't take it anymore and went to join her. I licked around the dildo until she came again. I then took it from her hands and went inside her. I stroked her for a while and move us both to the floor. As I sat her on top of my rock hard dick, I took the dildo and slowly slid it into her ass. She screamed and bucked and I enjoy the pleasure she was in as she kept calling my name. I put her on her knees and slide my dick into her ass. It was the best feeling I ever had besides being inside her pussy. She came back to back and I finally joined her. I lay on top of her on the carpet and whispered,

"I love you Lilly and I am not ever going to let you again."

"I love you to Arthur. Now let's go take a shower and talk about this proposal."

We made it to shower, talking, touching and kissing. But once we were in the shower it was on again. I was finally happy. I had my Lilly back and she agreed to be my wife, life couldn't get any better.

APRIL

DEEP

ARIES

I WANNA KNOW

I wanna know what good love feels like

In the word of Anita Baker's song "Good Love"  
"Morning, noon and night

Forever all my life"

But my version is  
I wanna feel you on my everyday routine  
I wanna think of you and daydream  
When things are down

Just like the old movies

Just let me visualize our times  
I wanna think of you and smile  
I want that kind of romance that's not going nowhere  
For the first time it is really there

And not just dates

You are more than just admiring wanting to get inside my innate

We have that connection that goes on for hours on the phone

Timeless music and slow dances we share

Or we can wine and dine for hours

Because it just flows

Our love's tower is fueling power

But we fiend for each others friendship

Companionship

Relationship

And I'm more than just physical stimulation

There is so much mental

That you are more than just intrigued

We vibe on the big picture as well as the simple

We take those long walks at the river walk

Bubble baths  
Candles and incense  
Massages  
Laughs  
Walking on the sunset or sunrise at the beach  
To be able to make LOVE  
Exhale..  
No more wondering or singing the blues

Just me and you  
That old school loving

Sharing an ice cream cone in the sand  
You as a man you are there holding my hand  
I'm always there for you too

And you are there for me

Maybe soul mates for eternity

Sounds corny

I don't know

But I want you to always know  
The me that doesn't have a wall up  
The me that feels invincible  
The me ready for love  
I wanna know what good love feels like  
I want that feeling morning, noon, day and Night

C. HIGHSMITH-

HOOKS

RECONCILIATION

I cried like a baby when I saw him.

Not that seeing him made me sad, but it had been almost five years since I laid eyes on my daddy.

The flood of emotions was hard to explain: I hated him for deserting us, but at the same time, I wanted to hold onto my daddy and never let him go-I was so afraid he'd leave me again.

I stroked his neatly-cropped, salt-and-pepper hair like a cherished doll I had lost, then suddenly found. I looked into his deep, dark-brown eyes. They were my eyes, and the eyes of my oldest brother.

They were the eyes of a man who knew he'd made mistakes and he was sorry for them.

The eyes of my daddy.

I held his face in my hands and gently kissed it with the love and admiration of a five-year old girl who never thought she would kiss her daddy again.

But that kiss was thirty-four years late, as I was now thirty-nine. Sadly, it had taken more than three decades for this father and daughter to make peace with the past. Thirty years of pain, anger, hatred, resentment, misunderstanding, maturity, and finally, reconciliation.

And in those thirty-plus years, the meeting almost took place a thousand times, but never did because we were never in the same place and on the same page at the same time.

Had the stars aligned perfectly just once, this public display would have taken place privately many years ago in a small upstairs apartment at 70 California Avenue.

But we weren't ready then.

Neither of us could have handled it then

All around us, people became teary-eyed, emotional. We too, were swept up in an all-consuming tidal wave of foggy bi-focals and smeared Fashion Fair #4550.

"I love you, Pop," I whispered in his ear.

"I know, Chickadee. I know."

Nobody else calls me by that name.

I told him to come out to California for a visit because my daddy has never been to my home.

"I'll be there soon. I promise."

My nervousness was obvious, so my daddy grabbed my hands and held them in his as they swung in front of me. I calmed down some as our heartbeats synchronized.

Daddy vowed to write more often.

I reminded him that he still has to take my

daughter for walks by the beach, so he should stop smoking. He reminded me that my husband and I didn't have a daughter yet.

"But we're going to start working on her the minute I get home."

We both laughed.

Then we hugged like the world was coming to an end. A father and his oldest daughter locked in a deep, silent embrace.

It was an embrace that was well past overdue, so no words were needed.

Cameras flashed all around us, but our attention was focused on only each other. For that one moment, no one could enter my daddy's world and mine.

They were all outsiders.

I kissed him one last time and made my way to the car. I wiped my eyes.

Then I paused for a minute, put the key in the ignition, and backed out of the driveway. I blew the horn and winked at my daddy. He gave me the double thumbs-up sign.

I put the car in drive, realizing I was finally ready to move forward with my life.

It seems even at my age, there were still some wounds that only a daddy's hug could truly and completely heal for his daughter.

CALVIN

HENDERSON

NEVER SETTLER FOR LESS

Slowly I open the door; even in the act I heard noises  
There I saw my sister lying on the floor.  
Face looked batter, eyes was blood shot red where she hit hard By someone's fist. I just stood there sadden. I embrace her, as I sat lying on the floor with my sister. Bloody lip, cut under the eyes,  
And a knot that was on the head. She was breathing heavy, I said to her; you want me to call mother.  
She waited then she said; no. I asked; how can you love someone that hits you all the time?  
She started to cry, and said to me; brother I love him. Love? In a loud voice I said. Love doesn't hit you back, in a loud voice I said! You are my sister, I love you much. But a man who hits a woman is less than a dog I said to her. Never settle for less; I told her than I said in an encouraging voice, fear not. You are blessed by the best! A man should always love his mate unconditionally, as the woman. You should never fear going home or being alone with someone that says they love you. Again I said to her; never settle for less. I help my sister up than she cleaned herself. After everything thing was over she promised me. She would put him out. I stay around just in case. My sister went into the other room. At that time there was a knock on the door. She said to me Rufus, get that please! Then I heard in a loud voice; Baby, open the door.You know I love you! Hum! As I smiled, with a bat in my hand. I told my sister in the other room; Baby I got this.

YOU JUST DON'T KNOW

don't you just hate when people try to act  
like they know how you feel.  
they start by saying, "it is going to be okay, just pray."  
not knowing how corrupt you have been in your life.  
you just do not know the things i have done.  
yet they sit their talking about how god can change your life.  
how the precious blood of Christ is the reason you have a choice in life.  
still you just don't know i was that guy that got your friend on his first high.  
there were many nights i lay in my bed thinking. could there be redemption for a guy like me?  
you just don't know the sleepless nights, at that time in my life i never knew how to pray.  
so my mind was always wondering why things happening to me. you just don't know how god has always been dealing with me through my mother, yet god manifest his self through people that had favor with me, you just don't know how close I came to death, certainly god was with me. through difficult times even when i did not depend on him he still find favor and always embraced me.  
you just don't know how blessed i am that i discover a deeper meaning of being a christian. it is by knowing and having faith you can be liberated from sin, you just don't know "how good god is."

THE JESUS IN ME

You have some ignorant people no matter how you have changed. They can't look past things you might have done. Numerous times you attempt to make things right with the ones you love. When I enter into the room. Their face frowns up and their attitudes changes. Sometimes you just have to pray for them. You struggle because of the pain that comes with regret. Wondering why they can't just forgive you. It feels like when you have lost a loved one. In my heart there is so much grief tile I began to weep. Never do I pray, yet as I stooped down, only God knows my heart. In a loud voices, because of the overwhelming grief. I have in my heart mournful wailing as I cried out with eyes full of tears. Lord I know how they feel about me yet let them see the Jesus in me. The things I done are no more. Totally commitment to you, joyful I live my life that I might be pleasing to you. Still not satisfied with myself, knowing the children in my life might not live or believe in Christ. At this point, I can only show them the way I feel is by letting my light shine. In hope that one day they will feel the Jesus in me. Lord let your spirit ascend on their heart and change the way they think. So they can overcome the lack of trust that comes from me not being in their life. Lord let this be let them see the Jesus in me.

CARLET

HORNE

SOW GOOD

The seeds you sow,

You shall also reap.

They may take many days to return,

And present themselves at your feet.

Whether they be in brush or briar

In thicket or mane,

Whatever you plant in your life's garden

Be willing to maintain.

Sow good seeds.

Sow in fertile soil.

So that you may reap bountifully

Even during the days of turmoil.

Sow good seeds

Into good ground,

And you can expect a good harvest

When they come back around.

They may not always return as they were sown.

But when they return, it will be known.

You planted, Another watered, and God gave increase

All for your willingness to sow good seeds.

I AM ME

It took all of life's Potluck of Experiences

To make and mold me into who....I Am.

Not just an ordinary person;

Unique, Different, Extraordinary....I Am.

It's not the length of my hair,

Neither the clothes that I wear.

Not the smile on my face nor my walk's pace

But my ability to rise, no matter what I face.

It's been through my life's experiences....

Good or Bad; Happy or Sad;

Days of Plenty; Others of Need...

That taught me to: Survive, Live, and Proceed.

THE JOURNEY

Don't cry for me.

Neither do I want you to mourn

Because I am no longer there.

I am home, with My Father.

No more worries

Or a single care.

I know you miss me.

I miss you too!

But it came time for us

In this natural life to part.

Just know the love we had was so strong,

I am always as close as your heart

So remember me as I lived,

Not how I died.

How I laughed,

Even how I cried.

And when it's time for your journey here too,

Remember God has a place, made just for you.

CHARRON

MONAYE

SURVIVAL

My strength shows my struggle

My bloodshed shows my battles

My fractured bones show my injuries

My smile shows my pleasure in spite of

My pain shows that I am still human

My broken heart shows that every one isn't true

My imperfections show that I am not perfect

My drive shows that I keep it moving no matter what

My corns show there is no stopping me now

My determination shows that I

"Can't stop, Won't stop"

My testimony shows that my life isn't much different from yours

My beauty shows that I come from a line of elegance

My sexiness shows that I am a woman

My timberlands show that I am not ghetto, but straight hood

My divorce papers show that I did give love a try

My pot belly shows that I am a great mother

But

The mere fact that my life hasn't stop

Shows that I have Survived!!!!!!

GIVING BACK

Now that you're successful

Who have you reached back to help

When was the last time you fed the homeless

Have you went back to your alumni

To share your journey to inspire another

When is the last time you donated one dollar

To find a cure for cancer

Someone held your hand through your destiny

So why not extend yours

Do you think you would be where you are

If you traveled alone

Do you think you would have made it this far

If it wasn't for someone taking an interest in you

God has blessed you

To become a blessing to the unfortunate

Don't be selfish with your testimony

If someone wants to learn, teach them

If someone wants to strive, motivate them

If someone wants to find their dreams, search with them

You are where you are because someone helped you

So please be the help that brightens another person's life!

MOVING ON

It takes a special person to walk away

It takes an even stronger person to let go

When you are standing alone anyway

Why love,

When love don't love you

Why fight,

When your jabs are flowing in the wind

Why cry,

When there is no one to wipe your tears

Why stop your dreams,

When you have nothing else to leave for

Why quit,

When the race is not over

Why become mute,

When you have so much say

Why hide,

When your presence is warranted

Why hold back the tears,

When they will lead to laughter

Why settle for less,

When you are worth so much more

So why stay, when you know you deserve better

It takes a special person to walk away

It takes an even stronger person to let go

When you are standing alone anyway

ALTER EGO

At the end of the day

I am me

I am my own person

No one can conqueror my destiny

Unique is my persona

Divine is who I represent when I stand my frame

Walk with pride

Proclaim the horn as they echo the strength

In my name

I am who you are not

Who you will never be

There is only one me

And I think I fulfill my shoes nicely

Comparing yourself to me is a battle

You will never win

Cause in the end

There can only be one me

Appealing to me you are

Showing me my image is sexy

Seductive, impressive

I got it going on, fierce is who I be

Is that why you are watching me

Envy, jealousy, misery is not words

I comprehend in my vocabulary

Comfort ability in your own skin

Is where you need to be

Fantastic and free

Living in perfect harmony

You could never be

Who you're not

And that is, ME

POETRY IN MOTION!

"Come Get to This" by Marvin Gaye plays

As we jazz across the floor

People watch in amusement

Our movements are erotic, intense

Convincing and suspicious

Making people believe that we are one of a kind, the perfect couple

The men and women share envy

Of the sexual intercourse that we are having mentally as we seductively glide to every beat

We step on every 6, we embrace on every 4

What we do cannot be rehearsed, reproduced or recreated

It's chemistry, It's love, It's friendship

It is Poetry in Motion!

CHERYL D.

FAISON

LOVE SURRENDER

Delicate kisses tempt, beckoning as an autumn leaf in a cool breeze

Floating

Slowly

Arriving

Wake up in a grassy dew with sun splashed vision

Warming

Comforting

Freeing

Embrace as if yesterday was the end of forever

Cherishing

Reclaiming

Renewing

Caress gently as the daffodil on a cherubs cheek

Beaming

Gingerly

Calming

Nourish quickly through the veins the nectar of gods

Sweetly

Sanctifying

Satisfying

Elevate beyond the heights of heaven

Rejoicing

Enjoying

Praising

Love withstanding the confines of time

Forever

Endlessly

Infinitely

Surrender to the days and ways of love

BITTER BEAUTY

### Beauty made bitter by betrayal

### Cannot be rehabilitated

### The purity that was within

### A love so endless

### Is not even a memory any more

### Only a scar that makes a random ache

### The heart chastised, disciplined to stand still

### Not giving way to emotion

### A love locked away in a vault without a minder

### Languishes away in a silent anger

### Smoldering with a hurt so painful

### Press it away like a primrose in your diary

### Imagine only its

### Forgotten fragrance which eludes you

### A tattered photograph in a broken frame

### A lovely face with a forgotten name

### Beauty no more, no less only a coldness

### In a battle of regret

POETIC SEDUCTION

I've fallen into your arms like a clumsy

Movie heroine captivated by charm

You poured such sweet sound from your lips

Musically it sounded so I swayed my hips to

The song of your ink in your melodic voice

Your prose captured me

Yet surrendering was my choice

I tasted every word

Each sumptuous morsel

Your lovemaking pen so

Romantically resourceful

I closed my eyes to imagine

The feeling of your touch

I became overheated as

My body felt the rush

I tossed my hair, bit my lip and

Of course I curled my toes

Willingly I climaxed to your seductive prose

Your delectable words

Like gifts of chocolate at my feet

I lie in a trance as they

Melted inside me divinely sweet

Unwittingly you became mine or better yet

My creative muse as it seems

Your poetic advances

My soul can not refuse

Your boudoir of poetic ecstasy

Unleashed the repressed poetess

Again she's set free to inspire

Her pen emancipated by your Kingly desire

Captivated like a clumsy heroine in

A romantic movie scene your regal words

Crown her heart as your poetic Queen

DAMIAN

KNOX

INTENSITY WANING

all mornings are good

and our hello's

have only "seemed"

to have lost their fire.

the "intensity"

of loves looks

is now alternated with living

and enduring of life's trials.

momentum is not lost love,

only tempered through

fire and the passing of time.

embers wait for breath upon them

in quiet remembrance of burning brightly.

breath forever gives and holds life,

but eternal flames burn out,

consume ALL in their heat.

our embers smolder, holding warmth,

knowing that they will not be extinguished.

our individual battles away from each other,

give us time...

...time to miss,

...time to remember,

...time to look forward to

those times yet to be lived.

this "connection" has led our souls to mate...

two pure elements poured into the same glass.

would you desire that we meld and blend

such that we became truly lost within each other?

or rather sweetly scented

as the oil in your bath

water...

that I should

never "become you" nor you "to become me".

sharing space, bound, yet separate in our glass

waiting for our attempts to merge our molecules,

that long handled spoon whipping us into froth

only to collect ourselves separately yet together...

...still in the same glass.

i accept your accusation and i am accountable

for the burden that is mine alone to bear.

place your pointing finger upon my chest...

place your concerned thoughts in my ears...

laying tinder, give fuel to the embers, now quiet.

your words will be the breath that blows gently

igniting what MUST rest

and be fed by our longing.

my accountability for our place... our space,

exists only because you desire it...

because you

require it.

i stir our combination at the times of our choosing.

tendrils of me reaching down, through, and

around...

...and into you

in this container that holds us.

as our momentum rises,

the lines between

where you begin

and where i end

no longer exist...

molecules blending,

passionately kissed

but not merging,

in this rolling, boiling

vortex that we have become.

first, my "push" meets your "pull"

in sweet harmony as our

"contrast" becomes "confront"

where "push" now meets "push"

and "pull" meets "pull".

mimic meets fog covered glass

no longer able to reflect

in this steam filled room

as release swirls around our ankles

with the water circling

as it finds it's exit

from our shared shower.

for this excruciating moment

our exertions combined

common goals refined

arms and legs entwined

our vision and emotion defines

that

we are whipped into one...

that we may separate

in our glass...

only to come together

again.

"...the answer is... yes."

DARCOVA

TRIPLETT

THE UNDENIABLE CONNECTION

So glad you heard me calling out to you

So glad you came back to take me away

From the first glance

to the first smile

to the first conversation

the first dance

and the first touch

the connection was undeniable

And when the lights were turned up

I kept my eyes closed

because it was my desire to stay in the dream

Sweet smells of strawberries

Cool breeze while riding up north

Raindrops tip tapping on the window ceil

Feeling good cause I got my peace again

and again

and again

Hoping that every day could last 26 hours

cause I just can't get enough

But now I'm forced to wake up

and baby has to be a big girl

Gotta go handle my business

and run the world

I will let 'em know

it was the best night of my life

And while I am already missing you

I will always love you back

cause chemistry can't be denie

JUST KEEP-IN IT REAL

I have my struggles

I have my flaws

But you will not hang them over my head

with your deadly claws

I'm trying to be perfect

I know Only 100 will work

So there's no need to remind me

of all the folk I hurt

I have asked for forgiveness

From evil ways I did turn

But you still out to get me

Really wanna see me burn

Trying to walk in my purpose

Distractions all around

Should be lifting me up

but you pulling me down

My spirit is willing

but my flesh is so weak

Save me from myself

or my future is obsolete

Thoughts running through my mind

Blink to make them go away

Trick or Treat

Which is Which

Just depends on the day

A WONDERFUL CHANGE

Made my way to the bottom of the pit

with nothing left to do

but look up

and cry out

HELP!

And He did just that

Walls of rebellion came tumbling down

Building blocks of confusion

transformed into stepping stones

Hurtful words

Evil actions

all blotted out by the blood

My mind has been renewed

My heart has be repaired

My character has been restored

And I walk around brand new

No recollection of the past

No reminder of the destruction

No re-visitation of the deception

No remembrance of the disgust

No recall of the saga

For He has redeemed me...

with no residue.

And in the words of the great songwriter,

A Wonderful Change Has Come Over Me!

DEBRA

ELLIOTT

GRACEFULLY

Beauty flows within  
My soul,  
Turning pages  
Forever blow...

Time wanders  
As a crow,  
Secrets danced  
Long ago...

Seasons linger  
In time flow,  
Gracefully  
I grow old..

IF ONLY WE HAD ONE MORE DAY

How many storms we could weather...

calming the hurricanes,

chasing the rains...

How many dreams we could live together...

seeing what could be,

running wild and free...

How many secrets we could tell...

whispering our deepest desires,

igniting love's fires...

How many sorrows we could quell...

letting our heart's not pain,

from hurt refrain...

If only we had one more day...

GROW OLD WITH ME

Grow old with me,  
share my last days as if  
they were my first.  
Give my solace when I  
thirst.

Share my anguish and my pain.  
Give me shelter from the rain.

Grow old with me,  
until I shall part,  
my life, my love, my heart.

                              DONNA B.  CARTER                     LOVE SONNETS...WRITTEN IN PSALMS   I Am... Love Sonnets Written In Psalms And In Romantic Soliloquy's. I Am... Softness  That Feels More Plush Than The Finest Down Comforter, With 4,000 Thread Count Designer Egyptian Cotton Sheets. I Am... Gentle Like The Sound Of A Lightly Falling Autumn Rain. I Am...Power And I Am Strength, Wrapped Up Inside Of  A Beautiful... Heart-Shaped Frame. I Am... Fairytale & Wishes, I Am... All Of Your Fantasies, Your Hopes And Your Dreams. I Am... All Of Your Greatest Desires I Am... All Of Your Wants,  And I Am... All Of Your Needs. I Am... The Most Powerful Force  On The Planet, I Am... The Greatest Gift Given By GOD The Father In Heaven Up Above. Just Believe... In Your Heart And Receive Me Now Can YOU See Me Clearly??? For I Am...Love!!!

EMMANUEL

BROWN

GOOD DAYS - BAD MOMENTS

"There is no such thing as bad days, just bad moments" is something that I learned from a teacher named Mr Thomas during a bad moment. He instilled this into my mind on a daily basis, because he wanted me to see the light from finding good in all situations. It took some time, but eventually found the good in most situations by crying over them just long enough to get it out my system and to move forward with a whole new outlook.

How would it effect me 10 minutes, 10 days, 10 months or even 10 years from now if I react in a negative way to a negative situation? I am still working on that question and realize that I have control over the answer to that question and that I can change that situation when I chose to deal with it in ways that wash the negative taste from my mouth. When the opportunity for me to write in this book arose, I was all for it and thought that I would boast

upon my lyrical skills (which I will still do). However, I lost a close friend that blurred my vision from the tears that I shed for another man. I couldn't see straight and wondered if it would put me in a slump that would stop my flow or my drive. Since you are reading this, you can clearly see that it didn't. It motivated me to finish 2 other projects and keep my obligations to this one in a way that is a little different than the way I planned.10 minutes after reading this finished product I will be able to say job well done to

Emmanuel, Fiordaliza and the other contributors to this project.

• 10 days after this is published I will be able to introduce myself to others that was beyond my

reach.

• 10 months from now I will complete at least 10 of my own projects and collaborate to complete

many more.

• 10 years from now I will be able to sit around with my children and possibly their own to show

them the actions I have taken and that anything is possible when you find the good in a bad moment so that you can have a good day. Thanks for your time and please enjoy the dedication to my lost friend and for everyone that might

have a bad moment that is taking it's toll on them.

No family and friends, will it end this way I looked at life and it's virtues so I could mend my way But who knows what the future holds If I pray to the Lord will I gain control "Lord Please" help me find a way to take away the hurt and pain Life's struggles take control making some insane Maybe I'll fall, but I have to lose balance first

Rising is better for me, so my wings disperse Don't watch me soar, join me in flight. Take sight on where we are, where we're going, on the dark and the light. Don't get complacent Be blatant In the changes made Facing Adjacent Challenges while your maps are laid

Follow your path But be ready for a detour

Don't frown, just laugh And you will be sure

Pure Thoughts captured, with a pure lure

Endure Your struggle, you can be your own cure

FABIOLA

SULLY

FEAR

I know your weaknesses

I know your doubts

I know when you're feeling down

And your pessimistic thoughts

I've made you sulk

I even broke you down

Worrying about your insecurities

I've kept misery within your grasp

Knowing you're searching for true happiness.

I've kept you away from the unknown

And all the inexperienced

I've even kept you away from love

Knowing you won't know how to handle it

Why deal with something you can't control

When you can't step up to the challenges

You try to get rid of me

Yeah, I know you fought back

But I kept striking

Once your defenses are down

Eating you confidence and well-being

I know one day you will find the courage

To put me out of my misery

But when you have those feelings

Of nervousness, tightness, and hot flashes

I'll be there

You know my name

MARITZA

I look through your brown eyes

With your content grin

Wondering where this little girl

With the inquisitive mind has gone

Yesterday, you were a baby

Following me wherever I went

And never wanting to be alone

But now you have become independent

You don't cling to me

Or ask your cute questions

As I watched you grow

I still feel that you need me

I would shield you from the pain and drama

The suffering and hate

I have experience in this world

That is, if life would let me

But I understand you need to grow

And I don't want to be blamed

For holding you back

So, I must set you free

For you to see what life has to offer you

But in the back of my mind

You're still the baby who clings to me.

BAG LADY

I watched this lady hop on the bus

Who looked about my age

With two bags on each hand

Struggling to get on board

And taking her money out

Trying to find somewhere to sit

As she bumped into people

Everybody was staring at her

Like she was a sideshow

Giving her dirty looks

And laughing as she passed by

No one seemed to help her

Even with struggle written on her face

When her stop came

She hurdled her way to the front of the bus

She got off by a clothing store

And just stood there

Looking at her reflection in the store window

I watched her as she walked away

Leaving her bags on the curb

Not even looking back

I know she didn't see me

But I clapped for her as she walked away

For I use to be her

FIORDALIZA

CHARLES

THE THRILL IS GONE

Do You Remember?

Those Days I Used To Melt Away

Seeing Your Smiling Face

My Panties, Wetter than Niagara Falls

I Used To Cry

To Make You Stay Home

Where Has It All Gone

I've Asked Myself

What Happened

To Those Happy Days

Those Kisses That Took My Pains Away

Your No Longer, The Reason I Awake

My Heart Does Not Beat, In Harmony With Yours

Now I Just Feel Scorned

Yes, You Guessed It Right

The Thrill Is Gone!

NOT ANY MORE

I Remember A Time

I Used To Feel So Happy

Knowing You Was there

But

Now I Wish You Would Just Disappear

I Used To Crave For You

I Used To Need You

I Used To Want You

Because

I Loved You

You Used To Satisfied Me

I Used To Feel So Good

No I Am Just Lost And Confused

I Used To Want This Too

But

Not Any More

I Am So

Over

You

I AM FED UP

I Am Fed Up

With Thinking Negative Thoughts

I Am Fed Up

With Feeling Lonely All The Times

I Am Fed Up

With Getting All Worked Up

I Am Fed Up

When You Act Like You Don't Care

I Am Fed Up

That You No Longer There

I Am Fed Up

Of You Making Up Excused

I Am Fed Up

Of Feeling Sad And Confused

I Am Fed Up

Of Being The One Who Feels Blue

I Am Just Fed Up

Of The Things You Do

I Am Fed Up

That You Do What You Please

I Am Fed Up

Of You Just Using Me

I Am Fed Up

That I Love You

And

Today

I Am So Over You

WITH OUT YOU

Why ?

Can I Get You To Understand

My Life

Was So Much Better

With Out You

I Used To Dream Big

I Used To Want To Do So Many Things

I Used To Feel Happy

Now All I Feel Is Crappy

You Make Me So Angry

You Make Me Feel Sick

You Make Me Want To Run Away

You Make Me

Not Want To Live

I Need You To Understand

The Love Is No Longer There

All Our Hopes And Dreams

Are Now A Distance Memories

Can You See

I Am Just

Better

With Out You

I AM SO TIRED

I Am So Tired

Is Beginning To Feel

As If

This Is The Way To Be

I Am So Tired

Of People

Specially Those Who Think

They Better Than Me

I Am So Tired

Of The Friends

That Turned To Be Snakes

The Enemies

I Keep In My Heart

I Am So Tired

I Just Want Things To End

I want to Start Over Some Where New

Leaving Everything Behind

And Staring Anew

I Am So Tired

Sick Of Being Left Confused

Leave Me Alone

And

Keep In Mind That

I Am Not You

JOYCE P.

JONES

    I AM...    I am the daughter of the deaf woman  And the daughter of the blind man I was made with love and so love is who I am. I am the sister of the beginning, the middle and the end; I am the beauty of the rose and the height of the amazonian. I am the epitomy of God's image Black and free I am the soul of the universe Stars and galaxies I am the woman who bore children  a boy and a girl  and the woman who took a life Because that was the way of the world. I am living with my flaws  I am living with my power I am living with my talent  to write poetry by the hour. I am the lady who commands attention  But I need speak no words; I am the lady who has loved  Lost and adored. I am being who I choose My flow, through my pen. It is the music God gave me It is the poetry  I am.....                       KATRINA  GURL

### RATED R TO X

Each word you speak  
Draws nearer to my truth,  
Can't believe the things  
That I think of you.

I long for your attention  
And you give in to me,  
Even when you don't want to  
You take the responsibility...

To make me over  
At a moment's notice,  
Your nature has spoiled me  
I've cum to know this.

I yearn for you  
Awake or sleep,  
What dreams don't render  
Reality keeps.

Every thought of you  
Is rated "R" to "X",  
Your guidance is suggested  
With positions complex.

Just like a saint  
I prey on your soul,  
Quenching just addicts me  
I am strung out cold.

I need you NOW  
Like a pimp needs his whore,  
Sacred loyalty  
Opens this door.

Ranging through titles  
Only given to you,  
With this rare power  
What will you do?

Be kind and rewind  
All promises foretold,  
And I will prey on, lay hands on  
Even when days grow old.

Is this something  
That can fill your bliss,  
Or is this a premier  
You are willing to miss?

KELLI

"SONGBIRD"

GARDEN

HONORED VOWS

A mutual decision you and I made;  
that we would share our lives  
together, come what may. Before God,  
family, and friends; with love, and  
commitment, in a covenant agreement  
we took one another hands. On that  
day and the years that went by, we  
remained one together and with God,  
you and I. Loving, respectful,  
faithful and true; our fate was  
sealed the moment we said "I do".  
Through ups and downs, the downs  
being few; we honored and kept our  
vows as God intended us to do. I  
held your hand, heard you sigh, as you took your last breath and I said goodbye; gently touching and closing your eyes. As your spirit soared, I remained strong; knowing the children and I must journey on. God answered my prayer, you're healed and without pain. He gave me beauty for ashes as we scattered your remains.  
So enjoy the fishing! We'll be OK.

In loving memory, My King ... Your Queen.

LOST MEMORY

You took that which wasn't offered or belonged to you; but was saved for my husband on our wedding day.

Evil minds an evil time, erased from my memory.

Dumped and discarded like a piece of garbage after you drugged and took from me.

No longer remembering who I once was or the woman I was meant to become.

The script was changed, my life rearranged all because of the evil intent in you.

The nightmares stopped when I took my power back; for my mind, spirit and soul you could not possess nor have the power to hold.

In my mind I killed you a thousand times; over and over again.

I finally realized that vengeance wasn't mine; for you would be made to pay one day.

When I heard you died, not a tear did I cry.......empty and numb for the pain was nullified.

Just grateful I have no full memory of the evil crime done to me.

Discarded and lost memory.

SEASONS OF CHANGE

I'm Wearing A Smile, But Deep Inside Are The Remnants Of Scars The World Cannot See.

I Struggle Some days To Push The Hurt Away; Inflicted By The Selfish And Insensitive That Don't Give A Damn About You Or Me.

The Phony And Fake Don't Hesitate To Run A Stake Into Your Heart.

Just So You Know, The Stones You Throw Will Instead Turn And Smack You In The Head. Be Careful What You Do And Say, We All Will Have To Answer One Day.

The Lies And Deceit Of Others Have Too Many Times Surrounded Me; Until I Broke Free Of Their Chains Of Negativity.

Making My Getaway From The Negative Vibes, Spewing Of Lies, And Empty Words That Beckoned To Kill Me, Change Me, Alter My Identity And Course Of My True Destiny. For Them I Cannot Be.

I Don't Give A Rap To What They Think Or Say About Me.

The Ones That Are Quick To Judge And Don't Know A Thing About Me Or The Journey I've Traveled In Becoming The Woman They Don't Even See.

I Bore My Cross And Have Paid The Cost To Be The Boss.

My Spirit Soars And Love Guides Me. My Heavenly Father Continues To Provide For Me.

Through Life's Pain, Strength I've Gained. I've Learned To Accept The Sunshine And The Rain That Life Does Bring; As I Journey On Through My Seasons Of Change.

LESLIE B.

POLLARD

##

##

## SALVATION UNCONDITIONALLY

Once upon a time there was an unsaved man. He had burns to his face and a severed off hand. People tried to get him to church many times before. But he always gave them excuses for not entering church doors. His main excuse was because they will stare at me. And that excuse he used over and over continually. And there was an unsaved woman tall and fare. That wouldn't go to church for she had nothing to wear. Her main excuse was they will talk about how i dress. And i refuse to go in there looking like a hot mess! But both of them needed to know of God's unconditional love. But they refuse salvation worrying about how people judged. So neither this man or woman went to church no matter who tried. But then one day God took away both of their lives. God said to them i gave both of you plenty of time to get saved. So why are you here before me without salvation today? Both of them painted their excuses like a pieces of art. Then God said i don't judge the outside, i judge the heart! For i have made salvation available for all unconditionally. But since neither of you have proven to love me. Being unclean Heaven you can not enter in. For Jesus died unconditional for all mankind in sin!

LONNEISHA

"FLOETPOET"

JACKSON

NOSY HEART

My heart is always looking for you

For the heart knows, you and I belong with each other

When you are near

My heart races to be near yours

I experience many emotions but lacking one.. L.O.V.E

For the heart knows, that you are the one

I have a nosy heart and it's always searching for yours

To be near, always here

Close together, strong as can be

A part and it beats s l o w l y

Without you, really, Who am I?

My heart and I are so weak

Please come, so we all can be together

For this nosy heart is still looking for you

WHEN WILL IT ALL BE OVER

Tired of fussing

Tired of fighting

Tired of it all

When will it all be over

Tired of you, tired of me

Tired of we, when will it all be over

Tired of trying, the lying and all of my crying

When will it all be over

Tired of this and so much of that

Tired of not talking

The house is so quiet, you could hear a pin drop

When will it all be over

Tired of talking, to still only get no where

Tired of listening, when you seem to never listen to me

Tired of all the pain

I can remember once upon a time

We were perfect or as close to perfect a couple could be

Where did it all go?

Nothing is the same anymore

Nothing left to do but wait

Then, it all will be over

THEIR DADDY

My kids love their daddy and their daddy loves them  
He was a good man  
A good husband, a great father  
A wonderful provider through and through  
Something in his heart changed, no longer my husband  
Not as good to me, like before  
I really don't know what happened and even to this day  
I am clueless to it all  
I have run myself crazy  
Trying to figure out, how I could have prevented  
Their daddy from leaving them  
Yes, he left me but my focus was on my children  
My babies, our babies they didn't understand  
How the only man in their lives could just disappear  
What did I suppose to tell them?  
Their daddy  
They loved him more than me, I often thought  
I had no answers, I couldn't stand to add to the hurt  
that their daddy was already putting them through  
Their daddy  
No matter how angry I was with him  
He was still their daddy  
All these emotions, that their daddy is making me go through  
How he has changed our lives forever  
I now have to be their daddy and try to help them understand, Why?  
It's just me

LUELLA

HILL-DUDLEY

PERFECT STRANGERS

Once upon a time, there was a king, taking his evening walk. He saw a beautiful queen, sitting on a bench, with tears strolling down her

Face . Her pain touched his spirit; he couldn't continue to walk on by An African queen has her head hung down and crying what kind of a king Would I be, if I kept on walking. Gazing at the crown on her head he looked Into her eyes blood shot red, as the tears continue to fall from her eyes The king took out his handkerchief and said, "please, don't cry

I want to take away your pain, even though I don't know your name".

A King can't ignore a queen in distress, so He said queen why must you cry? May I offer you my shoulder? It is Available for you. I'm not trying to get fresh, no, no I'm here to comfort You, as a man. Your pain froze my footsteps. A queen has borne Enough pain in the game of life if I weren't a stranger I would wrap my arms around you, and rock away all your pain as I stroke your head, you can rest on me like you're lying in your bed. This king will be your eyes, While you get some rest. I will be your security guard and my queen, believe me, I don't take no mess! So Let me dry your eyes some more if you Want to talk to me, I am right here, Queen. The King said," Queen can I Sing you a song to encourage your heart because I never want to see you cry again?" Instead, the Queen responded, with a sweet melody from her mouth of thanks to the King he stopped and fainted.

MARQUES

LEWIS

WEAK

Your love was everything that; I was missing even though I was defensive. I knew that to be a complete man all; I needed was a strong, good woman When we meant I saw us as friends and you did too. Said you weren't looking for no one but that's how destiny isTime from time our friendship grew, our communication was frequently, and seeing each other was a must

Now I didn't know that it was written for us to be together until I heard God while I was sleeping

He seen the pain I been through, the flaws that I am working on, and the trials that; I cannot do it by myself He said if you continue to be the man that I want you to be; I will bless you with love and a woman of God.

I froze I didn't know what to do I never heard him that clear, but I knew if I continue to grow into a man that you were coming.

I rather spend time with you then my friends, I pray for you more than I use to, trusting each other is something we are both loyal to do

I felt love coming, days you didn't even know I was crying, because I knew this was it you were the one. You know I shared my secrets with you that l I never shared with others, I gave you my heart before; I even knew I did, I gave you a king before we built the castle.

When I am around you yes I am still nervous because your smile makes me, because I am bless to have the most gorgeous woman in the world. To me you are because God brought you to me; when we kiss; I feel you melt into my arms;

I feel you getting weak.

Well baby I am weak too, because yes our walls were up, but now they are down and now we love each other. I am weak and I am in love with you because; I never have to worry about losing you, because you are dedicated to our loveYou never put me down, I never want to hurt you, you never put our business out there, I never walk on you when we fight we were made for each other

Now your past is the past remember that you will never about me second guessing about you, mistreating your heart, because you were a blessing to me.

They didn't understand what they had until you were gone, now you are here with me and; I will never let you go

I am in love with you, I will never leave you, I am weak for you, and you're my everything, the one that I will always cherish until we meet in heaven....

I love you love has found you!!!!

Pain is something I hate going through.

I swear I tried to laugh to hide the pain but it is always there. You know I wish that pain didn't exist but hey its life. Tears fall down to my cheeks everyday because I am tired of pain. Tired of a broken heart I swear! Tired of how my life is you know it's like it's not going to get better. One day its good then the next it's bad. If it is not drama it's someone trying to screw me over. All I want is for a good thing in my life. I just want someone to

take away the dark clouds, the pain, the suffering, and just love me and help me. I found God now these tears you see are tears of joy, because once I found God. Everything has been well LOL perfect he has bless me with things I wanted and more.

He is a great God and I love him even though I didn't say my prayers or read my bible a lot. He seen something in me I confess my sins and gave myself away.

Now I am happy and my pain is gone.

All thanks to God. Amen!

MARZANA

ISLAM

LENDING HAND

You're not alone,

It takes time and patience.

Your radiance is

what I hope for to see.

When I lend that hand,

holding us so we could stand.

If it takes forever,

I shall not lose hope.

clutch on closer to me as

Much as you can,

stand strong I know you

can cope.

The end of time.

Is what we dread,

griping us together by

a thin thread .

Waiting,

holding our breath as

If it would snap any second,

something we reckon.

Open your eyes,

I was always with you.

Take your hand in mine

and you know you will be fine.

Understand that this is a sign,

for us to be together.

To be with me

why can't you see?

Let me be that helping hand.

Enclosing us,

never letting go.

Emotions overflow,

It's a matter of time.

Why do you worry?

You will be ok,

together we will shine.

Be happy,

were getting stronger.

Closer,

It won't end, lets

hold on tight.

Everything will be all right.

UNDER THE BLOSSOM TREE

Just like those plum blossoms,

Our heart blooms.

We are separated by the seasons

Slumped in gloom.

Scented perfume,

Of these blossoms do we smell,

Caught in the trap like a magic

Spell.

I am at a loss of words.

Sitting under a blossom tree,

Do I realise the feelings for you

Stirred .

Such beauty indescribable,

Left me breathless

Making me nervous.

My body weak with thoughts

And touch,

Unable to clutch.

Your skin like the budding flower,

Something I want to devour.

withered by the cold,

Do you stand beautifully against the tree

So elegant, just like white gold.

When they bloom we long

to be together, under the blossom

Tree.

Something we foresee,

Just like the birds singing the song

That blessed us,

Blissful and prized,

My longing disguised.

How I wish those petals grazed me

With such care,

Lost in moments despair.

Oh under the blossom tree I lay,

With a broken heart

That cries day by day.

YOUR REMEMBRANCE

The day you left

A hallow feeling had been stuck,

In my chest.

An endless echo ,

In a dark empty hallway

So narrow.

Mornings are seen in sadness,

Nothing left to be disposed of

Eating less and less.

Stuck in distress,

Remembering you is a sudden feeling

My wounds slowly healing.

Yet it's dealing,

The sudden blow of your

Presence,

Avoiding my penance.

This body is surviving the harsh

Reality,

Balancing the harmony.

Of losing one existences

Keeping my distance.

You never complained before,

The pain of living with me

I loved you.

Now lost and lonely

My one and only.

Together we shared the bitter

Sweet truth,

Of our rugged life despite

The dispute.

Our fountain of youth,

I had wished will live on forever.

But here I am

In your memorial,

Yearning,

Discerning what to do

Next so perplexed.

Your final moments

Etched in my memory,

So heartbreaking and simply

Disturbing.

You could not stand

Your frailness,

So out of bound.

I miss you my darling,

I miss our loving quarrelling.

Your voice,

Your face,

Your dainty hands,

And your grace.

My love,

This isn't the end

I will travel far and wide,

To be with you again.

You are the part

Of my destiny and my heart.

So beware,

I am sure I will be with you again,

And disregard this

Pain.

PATRICIA

"CHINA"

HUNT

I'M NOT GONNA SAY...

I'm not gonna say those hurtful words that run from you're lips, I'm not gonna curse you out and show you a true bitch, I'm not gonna tell you how I placed my existence to a non existent plain, I'm not gonna tell you how I would've given my last breath for you, I am gonna say that every vow I said I would not break, my heart kept alone and its at stake, pumping a mile a minute I gave my mind a put you it, my words can be deadly gave you all of my power before you met me, like a fallen angel you plucked every feather and broke me down till I was warn and weathered know would've ever known that beneath this swag and divine exterior my heart was chipping and tethered, so I'm not.gonna say that I'm the bitch you made, you are the reason my eyes cut low and my thoughts have become disturbing and low, this anger inside burns deeper then the hottest fire, only you make me this way so there are so many things that I just wont say........*-*

MY ANGEL

I looked out into the dark night and saw your body in the moon light, how I craved you your moist skin was something I could drown in, touch me please I want to buckle to my knees, my sweet tooth it aches to devour your love I walk slowly to your heavenly body stretch your wings and wrap them around me, like a black cat ill climb the ride you slow as you twist your toes your body tightens as my ride heightens all sensitivity lean up and bite me, I'm Cummin harder and harder you can't take it any longer pull my hair back take me to heaven never to return where we left never to return again abandoned in bliss

BODIES COLLIDE

At your command,

I crawl the distance to your feet,

helpless to the emerging

power flow between us.

A victim to the ropes that bind me.

I watch you stare magnetically,

as your plans form methodically,

in a mind transfixed on only ... me.

There is love in my devotion, Sir.

You see it in my eyes,

watching breath leave from within my stare,

in the clutches of your demise,

and as for lust... You feed me well.

Shock waves to the brain,

I lean my neck towards heaven.

Loyal. Yours without shame..

This feminine skin is my gift

to devour. To crave.

Frames arching close as i beg to misbehave;

Please make me yours tonight,

as we slam backwards hard against the door.

Each scratch leaving sketches for weeks to come.

This is more than sex. It's effortless.

Steeped in eloquence.

As we slide

Our voices sing as one, rhythmic in

pounding that primal beat,

Oblivious to surroundings, and those

ecstatic heights, we cling and climb and

scramble. Harmoniously breathing as one,

screaming in to the wind as I cum!

Have patience! We'll do that in unison.

DIRTY THOUGHTS

I have dirty thoughts all the time, dirty thoughts of the way you grind, thoughts of how rough you take me from behind and the only thing i can think of is (I'm glad he's mine). Today's dirty thoughts were of you hand cuffing me and de-railing clothing sending and electrifying bolt through me right into my heart and piercing my soul, can you feel my ocean over flow? the only sounds that are being heard are enough to arouse every sense in your body, oh dirty thoughts you do do me well, you help me ignite and eventually swell, i want you even more as the thought of you are like white chocolate on the tip of my tongue, oooohhhh damn am i sprung.

RAMONA

JONES

UNRELENTING PASSION

Unrelenting passion...

It never wanes or subsides,

even after years of being absent from each other

the absence just makes it better

because our connection is just that strong...

Unrelenting passion...

Never does it ease or cave...

The stage was set a long time ago

You and I had the starring roles

We still do...

The set is different, but...

the lines have remained the same

Unrelenting passion...

It's unyielding...

It has never given up on us

It has guided us through good times and bad

Bringing us back together

time after time...

Unrelenting passion...

It spills out like an overflowing river whose levee has broken...

Pouring out...

filling in places that we did not know were there

The places have been waiting for us...

To find and make our own

To make it the next scene of our production

Unrelenting passion...

It never lies or denies

what is supposed to be...

What was...

What will be...

DO YOU THINK I'M THE ONE?

Do you think I'm the one?

The one who you've been trying to find

in the world of uncertain times?

In my mind so long ago

you came and rescued me from the hurt...

the pain...

you took me and made my heart whole...

And then reality came full circle...

Turned everything upside down

My heart couldn't take the pain

of being trampled upon so many times...

I didn't ever think that much pain was possible.

To go on like normal,

day in and day out...

Do you think I'm the one?

The one who has experienced so much pain?

In an effort to gain

The love I deserve?

Yes...

All the pain and uncertainty

Prepared me for this encircling of all that you have...

All that you've been waiting to give

And my heart is wide open...

to receive...

Can't you see?

Can't you feel?

That I've been waiting for you?

TAKEN FOR GRANTED

The lies, the hurt, the pain

All done in order to hurt me.

You drag my heart through the ringer

For what?

To prove a point?

To make a statement?

Either way...

I was taken for granted

Time after time

You turned our situations around...

Making me think it was all my fault

Making me second guess what i was doing...

All the while,

Taking me for granted...

I never said a word

Because the fear of losing you was overwhelming

And frightening...

I never imagined my life without you

Until it became a reality..

My reality...

That you would no longer be here

And why should i want you here

When all you did was

Take me for granted?

During the good times you adored me

Loved me, wanted me...

Then something changed...

Being me wasn't enough

And, you started

Taking me for granted

Now that you are gone

It's crystal clear

That it wasn't me...

I was being taken for granted... By You

RICO

REVELS

INTERNAL RELATIONSHIP SERVICE

We are all born into the Internal Relationship Service

The complicated code of human emotion and relationship. Take the bond between parent and child

When children are young parents are normally their heroes Through time your children grow into young adults slowly they drift into those trans formative pubescent years becoming a new creature from the child you once knew although it is a beautiful process it can be quite taxing. This is a normal process of human growth and development. Though a known fact it can hurt the most. The bond between siblings is like no other these people in the world who are the closest replicate of who we biologically are

We grow with them, we love them, and we often fight with them They are our co-pilots in this journey we call life. For all the love between siblings there are also sibling rivalries. The bond between friends

A bond most unique being that it is a chosen bond

Our friends are those special ones who become our extended family we laugh with them, cry with them, and sometimes divulge the inner most parts of ourselves with them, all friendships may not last forever but they are all significant while they last

Good friendships teach you about loyalty, love, respect, and conflict resolution. Bad friendships can teach you too appreciate the good ones

The path of friendship is often taken but less often appreciated one of the strongest but least often found

bonds is that of lovers. Not just a hot date or an okay relationship but true love, love that drives you crazy

Insane to the point that one person who isn't friend, sibling, parent, or child can step in and demand attention in all the unexplored places of your heart

This bond where two strangers invest their heart, mind, body, and soul to become closer to one another

Human relationship of this level is often imitated but rarely duplicated. Unfortunately there are a lot of sad love stories on this journey to true love

One night stands, they never call you back, infidelity and other love setbacks. There are so many tests and emotional hurdles to overcome before you find that one when you get there this trip is the most amazing life has to offer. Unfortunately everyone doesn't get to complete their love journey

From the second of our birth we are thrown into the Internal Relationship Service. Left to figure it all out and which path our life will take us more importantly who will join you along the way? We never know where the path will take us or just how taxing it will be

But hey if you know like I know that is the IRS for you

SEASONS OF LIFE

Childhood was like a remarkable spring

Filled with sunny days and happy memories Life didn't mean that much too me at the time

For I was child so the importance of life was lost on me But I enjoyed every sunny day given to me All the while little bits of me were being taken

Slowly destroying the adolescence of a once happy child As spring faded away the heat was turned up with the summer sun

Dealing with my teenage years with pent up fears

Fears of those same memories from my childhood spring Back then I thought it was okay and it only felt like love After being loved the wrong way for so long it makes your temperature rise

The temperature of my soul rose with my age

Finally figuring out that the once happy child was a victim As my summer heat begins to settle ushering the autumn of adulthood

I graduate high school and begin my journey into manhood

Finally processing the fiery emotion of my summer led on by a deceitful spring I lose control of my self

Floating to whatever life had to offer which was everything So misguided still not able to handle

who I see when I open my eyelids

Pieces of me began to fall like leaves Making my way through trend after trend til I found what stuck with me

As autumn fades into a harsh winter I began to become desolateI began to bear my pure soul in an attempt to find who is really there I shed the leaves of my pain and regret Trying to deal with a childhood that I could not forget Spring to Summer to Autumn to Winter

The evolution of me It is now spring again and life is sunny The pedals of happiness have budded within my heart

For the little boy deserves a new start

My life is flourished with real love

I think I want this season forever

WITHOUT YOU

If I can't have you then I don't want anything

Because everything means nothing if you don't have someone

Someone who means something makes anything worth everything

Without you I feel nothing

If you won't have me then I will never speak again

Because my words will have no value unless they fall on loving ears

My problems left without resolution

No one to listen when my heart needs soothing

Without you I will vow silence

If we can't be together then I wish ears not to hear

Because I love you is just a phrase if you don't say it

I miss you would be a misuse of words

Words that will never penetrate my deaf ear

I will my ears not to listen if they can't hear your voice

If our love would ever fade then I would sacrifice my sight

For what would beauty mean if I could not attach your face too it

Forget a sight for sore eyes

I wish my retina's demise if I may never behold your pupil

Eternally erasing my true definition of beautiful

If they say it's better to love and lost than to never love at all

Then I request to Death itself that my heart stop beating

Slow my lifeline b/c this is a waste of a lifetime

Who shall my heart beat for if not you

Every skip every beat who could make my hear fall to my feet

Without you I will die b/c you've made my life worth living

ROBERTO D.

STYLES

SECRET LONGINGS

I have this......

Secret admiration...

So tempting to

Reveal what my heart seeks..

Volumes alarm my soul

Every time I hear you speak.....

And your scribes, you formulate renditions

Always holds my attention.....

One mention of your name

One glimpse of your smile

How you eradicate my soul....

The depths of your intellect....

This secret longing.......

Hoping you are my perfect fit...

Cause see.....

Your are more than a mistress....

But I would I be.....

A misfit in your realms.......

Thoughts of touching your hands...

Hopes that I can be.....

Your one and only man......

I want to say it so bad......

Don't know if you are already taken

Don't want to mistaken myself a fool

Holding to this actuality of you

When all I can do.....

Is hold the scold of my affections

From a distance......

This instant, I wish to dispel...

Not one to kiss and tell.......

I long everything about you....

Your smile......

Radiant like the suns beams....

Eyes glimmer.....

Every curve

Sculpted definitions

On those fitted tight jeans......

See......

I don't harbor these feelings

Out of fear of rejection...

Your soulful reflection.....

Coat the rigors of my soul....

To touch your softness.....

To taste the sweet of your lips.....

Each time I see you......

So much commotion....

Wells up inside me.....

I wish I could tell you....

Wondering if you are already spoken for.....

Not trying to interfere your plans

Just want to touch your hands.....

I just want to hold you.....

I wonder if you even notice me......

Or if I am just.......

Another face in the crowd.......

As my heartbeat.....

Visuals of you.....

Bring me comfort when I sleep...

An evening alone......

Candles and incense......

You have left a permanent imprint

On my heart.....you have ignited a spark

This affection for you......

Feels like my world is coming apart.....

Heads on a swivel........

My cadence towards you is more physical....

I desire your.........

Mind

Heart

Soul......

I desire every measure of thee

Sometimes, daydreaming

Wondering what you would see in me.....

This longing want.......

A deeper connection

Affectionate favors

Bathe me your kisses I savor

Savor the sweet of your divine

Tasting of your wine....

To caress your waist

Gently caressing the small of your back.....

We can do romantic slow dances

Romance the raven........

These visual of you...

Won't escape my mind.....

I desire your quality time....

But for now.....

This is nothing more than a dream

In the scheme of my thoughts

Hoping that you can be........

My dream come true.........

This secret admiration I have for you

Hoping somewhere along the way

Any day....the this can become realistic to me......

For now.....You are nothing more than a fantasy........

Damn!!!

Letter To The Potter

Dear Lord,

This is not a prayer

More like a conversation

From all my minds complications

All these painfully memories

I just wish I could erase them

But I have to face them

It drags on, day after day

Nothing personal against Lord

Sometimes in my plight, I get afraid

I know say, we shall not live in fear

Always hearing these voices

Whispering in my ears.....

Do you even hear me......

Sometimes.....on the real

This is just how I feel

Life has lost it's appeal

Just wondering what's the deal

Sometimes, I just don't know what to say

For all my transgressions, confessions is my price to pay

Just trying to figure it out

Put together all the pieces

While I write this thesis

Nothing more than withering bones

A heart of stone, shattered to pieces

I write

And

I write

About my plights

Many times, can't even sleep at night

Many times, like these moments today

My soulful woes, so damn scorned

I'm paranoid

I'm afraid

If this is my call, why all the pitfalls

That lay in wait, why all the fight

Why do I live with my life

Feeling as a born mistake

I don't even love me

Maybe I am just to blind to see

I'm tired, I'm weak, my soul is beat

Just want to find my tomb, under the moon

Crimson tears harbors my fears

Trying to find my restful retreat

A nocturnal creature, leaching my capability

To go on forward.....Lord, do you even feel me

I call out to you, not one to complain.....

What is it I am missing, feeling lost in the game

Many times over, can't seem to remain sober

I just want to love me again, how else am I to love you

My momma, my daddy, my sister, my two nieces

Even my two best friends,

This is not a suicidal letter, this is my plea

I'm on my knees.....please save me

I want to be free......

Can you help me, do you even

Here my cry

Wipe these tears from eyes

Sick of all the lies

Sick of all the heartache

Sick of these haters talking

Want to kill something

Just trying, fighting

With all my muster

Trusting in you

So I don't make the same mistakes

I need you......I need you

Where can I find you

Because.....Once I find you Lord

If we can on one accord......I can

Finally find my peace.....This soulful conversation

My anticipation.....a greater situation.....so that I can

Finally find my perfect peace.........

Sincerely yours my Lord

The Soul Of Broken Soul of a Man.......

WONDERING......DO YOU?

I wonder if.......

She thinks of me

The way I long for her

Nightly....thoughts of her

Cradles the depths of my heart

When I think of her.......

My heart becomes misty

Risking myself exposure

Closures remnants still remain a new

Many feelings I suppress

I think of her smile

I think of her feel

Her appeal ignites fires

Ragging infernos abide

Longing to reveal

What has been long stored inside

I wonder if......

She even thinks of me the same

Her voice bellows

Deepened regions of my soul she cries

Inject me your infectious vibe

To be precise

When it comes to you

I never have to think twice

I wonder if.......

I even cross her mind

I wonder if

I wonder what it would be like

nights alone with her

As we abide, side by side

Mating calls beyond our daily rituals

Is this connection

A reflection of a spiritual divine kind of mind

Smitten by the heirs of your passionate kisses

These and many other thoughts I keep confined

I wonder if......

Does she think of me the same

I lay claim to her heart

Her soul, her body, her mind

In due time

I desire rest as I lay in the bosoms of your love

Could this be just a figment of thought

Still, I wish to reveal to you my dear heart

Daily, thoughts of you roam across my mind

I just need to know

Wondering if.......

I just need a sign

Any indication

That my fixations towards you

Is not in vain

Whisk me away your sensual thunders

Uncover the true that is

Anything to know....do I.....do I

Do I ever cross your mind.........

Sometimes........

I just wonder if..........

SEAN

STEWART

    DANCING WITH MOUNTAINS    I feel tribal, my inner Navajo dances, Kachina doll roams the mountains for her, She may be in her but leaps inside of me, from time to time swings; rain dances on us Clinging to your every star taking love this far, Moon loving Earth love, keeping me in place, Going high school steady standing on your word, Her in your local, keeping clouds away, Sun shinning on my love Shikinah Glory beaming from your lips, Moving my heart to beat blood to my hips, Dancing strokes on cloud nine, smoke flips, Choke sipps of your sexy barefoot bottle tilts, Smoke signals call the flag on a rough pass, We ballin leaning back off love, Never seen it coming but I know its real. Never leave this love, If she left me, there would be a new level, A new standard of sense of relationship, A whole new guild on how to build, A new me, A man with a new stance, A Romance that is only worthy of Her, She exists as only a new love, The Indian Dances on Mountain I have seen the light, The dream is real, Real is the love, I've never known, But, even it may be lost in time, the echo of the mountain, soft, but I've said "I" I should be saying we're in Love....

SHANTA L.

DAVIS

BOUNDARIES

Life tricked me blue-

When I think of the things we've been through-

Within boundaries, awakening deep old rivers from rain storms won't let me through-

Then your memories beacon and break loose-

From the clouds that cover you-

Your rays of light shine on my heart, burning with truth.....

LONELINESS

Lifting my spirits-

Amazed by my heart-

Tender felt kisses near, yet so far apart-

You were revealed inside my mind-

In a place contoured in a time next to mine-

Burning in the skies on stars up high-

Just a thought of loneliness when I opened my eyes....

WALK AWAY

Sometimes it's best to walk away.

When two are too proud to get it straight.

We went out on the town to celebrate,

More than what the future for told, (More than anyone could anticipate)

We lived for today.

Sometimes it's best to walk away

Although years what a mystery

Although fears in secrecy

Although tears were meant to be

Sometimes it's best to walk away

When commitment becomes tyranny,

Instead of an infirmary.

Sometimes it's best to walk away.

Close the fence in front of you, not from behind

So you can face your surroundings,

Honor it once and smile

When respect for one another are tight like vines on a gate.

Sometimes it's best to walk away

I AM LIKE THE OCEAN WITH NOWHERE TO GO

I am like the ocean with nowhere to go.

The surreal creations of epitome,

The stunning darkness of obscurity,

The unforgotten memory of evolutionary,

Influenced by the intertwined wind... swaying back and forth again.

I am like the ocean with nowhere to go.

Imprisoned since the beginning of time,

Unable to make up my mind,

There's a war brewing in me from the waste dumped inside of me.

My rage is unleashed from the pollution stirring deep down beneath.

Attached to the half dead in order to survive...in order to remain alive,

I am like the ocean with nowhere to go.

No eyes, just whys that decriminalize bondage and ties.

I am like the ocean with nowhere to go.

Nevertheless, refuge from my oasis is where I am free.

TANIESHA

GRACE

WHAT AM I? WHO AM I?

You ask me what am I,

You ask me who am I,

So it's as simple as this,

I am human beautifully made by God's hands in his image,

I am street smarts, book smarts and given,

Intellect to prosper and study,

Work hard for what I want and sometimes after bills still don't have no money,

Yet still I do exist to make dreams come true,

Inspire little ones and keep a roof over my head and sometimes I dread

paying the rent like any other instead of having money to treat myself to a

shopping spree but I got to eat,

Because like a fat kid loves cake,

I love me some food,

I am an aspiring writer,

Scratch that, 3 books in the process of becoming best sellers with more coming

by the end of next year,

Don't believe me, Google me and all jokes aside,

I make mistakes and sometimes don't want to admit that I am wrong,

But I do,

I am known from birth with negativity on my name

because of things that have been done,

Pushed aside and cast out of existence until they needed something,

And yet in my heart all is forgiven,

Because I'm a forgiver,

So again,

I'm human beautifully made in God's hands in his image,

Thrown into the tidal waves of life,

Because not everything so grand is soft on the inside,

Yet still I am deemed a princess and sometimes queen,

Accomplishing my goals is all I want to do,

Following my dreams just makes me who I want to be,

Writer, teacher, poet, dancer and many more little subjects of matter down to my core,

Make me all the particles I'm made of,

So who am I?

What am I?

The next time someone ask you "What Are You" or

"Who Do you think you are, you know the type"

Reply:

**I am what I am and I'm okay with that and I am who I am and I'm okay with that too...** **

**

**I WANT**

I want to be with him on this stormy day,

Wrapped up in his arms or him wrapped up in mine,

Watching the movies we enjoy,

Or just watching his eyes in competition with mine

to see who can hold the longest stare,

I want to be somewhere on a cloud with him,

No one else is needed,

Our voices create the music within a simple melody,

The methodical rhythm of our hearts are one,

My, oh my,

I wish the sun would come out and play,

But then again,

I wouldn't be able to have him all to myself,

Like I have today,

I want to be wrapped up in his arms,

Feeling the beat of his heart,

Listening to the rhythm is creates and just pray that mines is on the same page,

How we love to watch the trees sway side to side,

While watching the rain pour,

Standing out on the porch with the screen door closed,

It's the simple things with us,

Hmmm,

It's something special about being with the one we care for when it rains,

Something about being home in the warm,

Being wrapped up in all that love and peace,

Sincerity, tranquility, feeling the heat of your heartbeats burning together,

On a plane where no one understands the silent language you speak,

And you just smile and look at each other deep in the eyes,

Hypnotized, because for a change someone understands you for you,

The rain is just a piece of what you like to share,

I want to be in the room where he is,

In the bed where he lays,

Wrapped up in his arms all day,

Like today would be the perfect day,

The rain is flowing and it's getting dark,

We could just talk and explore each other's minds,

I want to be there with him,

I want to be there....

THORNNE .E. XAIVIANTT

SACRIFICE

I'm willing to give my all

surrender my everything

can you see it in my eyes?

Can you catch my tears on your shoulder

as my soul weeps and cries?

I would give you the shirt off my back

in the midst of winter's worst storm

love resinating from my heart

I lay next to you keeping us warm

Don't worry about paying me back this not a loan.

I knew I loved you from day one

There you were standing in front of me

My gender opposite

Yet and still my only clone

My friend forever my shadow in the sun's light

An embrace for the ages music to my mind's ear

Blinded by a love so rare as you hold me standing there

I receive your welcome in amazement

Standing there unafraid absolutely no fear

I'm just glad you are here my dear

This feeling is far from great wonderful or nice

To know what you endured

To see the fight you put up just for me

Oh what a sacrifice

Starting over and walking this path together

The rainbow beams through fog a sign of beauty

I knew when I heard you speak for the first time

You already knew me

Taking a chance

Withstanding this hell this punishment

The good the bad the uncertain

How bad do we really want it?

Oh what a sacrifice

To say we made it through

The ultimate test through time

I vouched for you my friend

Going the distance

Never stop loving you

From now until forever

Our struggle has reached its end

Oh what a sacrifice

THE TRANCE

Mezmorized by those hips and thighs

When you passed by I realized

It was your swagg

I was paralyzed

Your lips your hair

I couldn't help but stare

My happiness turned to tears

Yes I cried

I knew I had found love

Not just on the outside

But an unspoken bond

Full of majestic pride

Plainly seen in your beautiful eyes

Confidence in those diva strides

I was on board

ready for the ride

A feeling I never denied

Proud to say I love you

Walking hand and hand

Side by side

As our favorite song plays

I treasure these days

I look at you

May I have this dance?

A moment to remember

Caught up in this trance

TIFFANY

CHRISTINA

LEWIS
Spring Break

He inpressed them.

As he hovered nearby, the three young ladies ate him with their eyes. His smile shined as he spoke to his friends happily. The ladies knew he had intellect, now they wanted to know what his anatomy would bring. They watched impatiently from their pool chairs, laughing quietly among themselves. They swatted at each other playfully as he began to uncover his skin. As he peeled off his shirt, abs of steel came from their hiding place. His sweat pants removed revealed... his swim trunks, but below them were legs rippling with muscles.

He is perfect, they thought as he dove into the pool and swam away.

Thank God for Spring Break.

URBAN

POET

DIARY OF A WOMAN (WRITTEN BY A MAN)

In my life

How many times

I been cut with a knife?

Raped of my innocence

By my uncle

At the age of ten

At the age of fifteen

Raped again

Father beating

My mother

My brother

Born stillborn

Father cheating with a newborn

Twenty one years old

Leaving my fam

To start another fam

Multifam

Loyal to one fam

Mine the sacrificial lamb

Been done wrong

Never seen right

Mother had no fight

Heart attack

Heart delayed

Or

Heart betrayed

Our life played

Out like, Shakespeare - Sonnet 30

Life so dirty

Took my best friend

My last of kin

Wanted to end

My life

Thought about jumping,

Through a window pane

Now I know why they call it

Window pane (pain)

Went to college

So did pain

Received a date rape drug

God my anti-drug

Kept me sane

But life breaking my heart

Tearing my soul apart

Don't know how long

I can hold on

Graduated from college

Student loan

Occupation unknown

All alone

Looking for my fathers affection

Fear rejection

So I used no protection

One night stand

Thought he would take my hand

In marriage

All I got

Was a baby carriage

Baby's daddy leaving the fam

To start another fam

Multifam

Loyal to one fam

Mine the sacrificial lamb

Been done wrong

Never seen right

Heart betrayed

Life replayed

Got to break the cycle

Got to recycle

All the pain

Use it to gain

An advantage in life

Waitress @ night

Secretary by day

Rarely saw my daughter

Gods word my food

His tears my water

And his gift was time

For time

Stands the test of time

Who can stop time?

For time is unrelenting

Never bending

Never repenting

Never compromising

I must become as time

As it invests in itself

Second by second

I must invest in myself

Opportunity by opportunity

Giving my life

Immunity

From struggle and pain

Transforming the game

Of life

Changing my disposition

Preparing me for

A Company acquisition

Which created, a new position

Life experiences

Made me hard-working

An discipline

My persistence

Won me promotion

After promotion

Now CEO

Living in 90210

Eating at Mastro

Driving a Mercedes Benz SL

Skiing in Vale

Daughter attending Yale

Married to the love of my life

Dale

(PAUSE TO SEND PRAISES TO GOD BY SPIRITUAL MAIL)

As I fly

In the company jet

I have no regret

My hurt

My pain

My struggle

My disappointments

My success

All a part of life

To embrace life

Means to embrace

All things

That make up life

Even those things

That cut you like a knife

Cruel is life

We cannot outlast life

But we can be like time

Andoutlast cruelty

That is the key

To life

Note: I want to apologize on the behalf of all men

who have caused women great pain and suffering

since the beginning of time. May God forgive us

for our transgressions)

### ABUSED

In an abusive marriage

Want to rewind

Time

And see myself

Walkin in reverse

From the alter

All the way back

To the bachelorette party

In Jamaica

Where I would stop time for a minute

And forget why I'm in it

Enjoy time with my girls

And those strippers

Stripping all memories of him

Sippin on a martini

Takin off my bikini

And lay on the beach

In my skins

And forget about men

I wanna take my pen

And rewrite this verse

Over and over again

But that would be insane

Cuz, you can't find love

And you can't hide from pain

Do I remain

In a abusive relationship

Or do I restrain

My emotions

Give my dreams

A demotion

Show my devotion

Take out the lotion

And give him a backrub

With every stroke I feel vile

Disguise my disgust with a smile

He on top of me now

Penetratin me

Thinkin he sexin me

Don't know he rapin me

Don't feel nothin

Like Color Purple

When Mr. was on top of Celie

She lookin at the ceiling

While he stealing

Her self esteem

With ever thrust

My dreams

Gather dust

I must

Find the strength to leave

Or let my dreams die

And bereave

For a lifetime

Is it a crime

To take an oath

For better or worse

And then to find

Your marriage is cursed

Cuz, I did not converse

With God

About whether or not

I should marry this man?

Did He put a ban

On my happiness?

Or would he give me an opportunity

For impunity (exemption from punishment)

And immunity to pain (not being susceptible)

Ordain

My divorce?

My Ordain

Minister said of course

Not

You tied the knot

It can't be untied

Only if you died

Why did I confide

In him?

He ain't even married

Never carried

This shame

Never endured

This pain

Never

Overcame

The physical abuse

Despite the abuse

I'm makin my truce

With God

Gonna make this marriage work

Forward in time >>>>>>>

As I lay here

On the kitchen floor

The door

Has been shut on my escape

Again I have been raped

This time

My mouth, hands and feet taped

A knife in my back

A crack

In my soul

My heart crushed

A long time ago

Should I blame God?

The Devil wants me to

But my love for God

Don't melt like snow

When the season change

My love for Him only grow

Has my life been shortchanged?

No

Just gonna be rearranged

To other places

New faces?

Erasin

All the pain

Erasin

All the inhumane

Treatment

The light

So bright

Not ready to leave

I try and fight

But time

Is bent

This rhyme

On rent

It's time to repent

God I ask for forgiveness

Through Jesus Christ

For my sins

Angels descend

Everything so clear

Heaven so near

God speaks!

"My child

You have been in pain

Too long

It's time for you

To come home."

Flatline--------------------------

STATUE OF LIBERTY, NEVER GAVE ME LIBERTY

I'm overseas

Iraq

Fightin for their liberties

Killin women and babies

While in America

I ain't got know liberties

Oh God

I'm losin my soul

Dying spiritually

Dem demons waitin for me

In Hades

Cuz my God

The Statue of Liberty

While dem politicians

Eatin Sushi

And their children

Attend Yale University

I eat MRE's

And my children

Attend Ghetto University

Statue of Liberty

Never done nothin for me

Never gave me liberty

Only slavery

Only poverty

Amistad say

"Give us free"

But in America

Ain't nothin free

Freedom

Only for the wealthy

I'm from Chicago

The ghetto

To America

I'm John Doe

My second home Jamaica

So I quote Mavado

"Mama

Even if they kill me

Don't cry

They can never take the G from me

Me pray for my enemy"

The Statue of Liberty

She a B to me

She tears me down

Never build me

My self esteem

She steal from me

She say she love me

She breakin my heart

She lie to me

She Pinnochio

Why she got me livin

In the Ghetto?

Statue of Liberty

Never gave me Democracy

Only Hypocrisy

I'm tryin to survive

And she playin Monopoly

She Dr. Frankenstein

She created me

So I'm Frankenstein

A monster, a gorilla

Vice versa, give her poverty

Bet she turn into a killa

A drug dealer

A nigga

Don't let her fool ya

She can pull a trigga

For 400 years

She been shootin

Nigga's

In one hand

She carry a rifle

In the other hand

A Bible

While she play Christian

I fight for my survival

I'm overseas

Iraq

Fightin for their liberties

Killin women and babies

While in America

I ain't got know liberties

Oh God

I'm losin my soul

Dying spiritually

Dem demons waitin for me

In Hades

Cuz my God

The Statue of Liberty

While dem politicians

Eatin Sushi

And their children

Attend Yale University

I eat MRE's

And my children

Attend Ghetto University

Statue of Liberty

Never gave me liberty

Never done nothin for me

Only slavery

Only poverty

Amistad say

"Give us free"

But in America

Ain't nothin free

Freedom

Only for the wealthy

Statue of Liberty

Ain't know friend to me

Ain't know kin to me

All dem slave graves

Make her sin to me

X and King graves

Make her enemy

She quote Martin Luther King

"Let freedom ring"

Then she kill the King

What kind of ting

Is that

Why she sing

"We shall overcome"

When she got no intention

Of givin me freedom

I cry out REVOLUTION!

Forgive me Fatha

I can't wait, for your Kingdom

After 9/ 11

No black, no white, no gay

After 9 /11

Everybody pray

10 years later

In school, it's illegal to pray

10 years later

I'm black, you white and they gay

Everybody say

God bless the USA

America selfish

Like God only gonna bless the USA

America now part-time Atheist

She selective, when it's time to pray

No Atheist around

Quickly, real Christians let us pray

"Our Father, which art in heaven,

Hallowed be thy Name.

Thy Kingdom come.

Thy will be done in earth,

As it is in heaven.

Give us this day our daily bread.

And forgive us our trespasses,

As we forgive them that trespass against us.

And lead us not into temptation,

But deliver us from evil.

For thine is the kingdom,

The power, and the glory,

For ever and ever.

Amen."

I'm overseas

Iraq

Fightin for their liberties

Killin women and babies

While in America

I ain't got know liberties

Oh God

I'm losin my soul

Dying spiritually

Dem demons waitin for me

In Hades

Cuz my God

The Statue of Liberty

While dem politicians

Eatin Sushi

And their children

Attend Yale University

I eat MRE's

And my children

Attend Ghetto University

Statue of Liberty

Never gave me liberty

Never done nothin for me

Only slavery

Only poverty

Amistad say

"Give us free"

But in America

Ain't nothin free

Freedom

Only for the wealthy

God I'm so confused

What am I suppose to do?

Statue of Liberty

Say she fight for you

Religion and politics complicated

Got too many levels

I don't know who fight for God

Who fight for the Devil

Pastor Troy say

"What if everything good

Is bad

Everything bad

Is good"

What if the Statue of Liberty corrupt?

Iraq

I already blew up

Politicians, dem demons

They corrupt

They don't give a fuck

When I sleep

I see dead people

I see Saddam Hussein

Bin Laden

I see Grim Reaper

On Judgement Day

I'm gonna say

The Devil made me do it

But who the Devil may I ask?

Statue of Liberty?

Or my past

And what I've done?

I thought I was fightin

For freedom

For God's Kingdom

Oh God

What have I become

I hear footsteps

I think dem demons come

They tryin to kill me

Run Forrest run

God

Please let me in

The gates of Heaven

The Statue of Liberty

Got mo sins, than I

I ask forgiveness

For my sins, before I die

If this a dream

Wake me up out this bed

God speaks!

"My son it's too late

You already dead"

I'm overseas

Iraq

Fightin for their liberties

Killin women and babies

While in America

I ain't got know liberties

Oh God

I'm losin my soul

Dying spiritually

Dem demons waitin for me

In Hades

Cuz my God

The Statue of Liberty

While dem politicians

Eatin Sushi

And their children

Attend Yale University

I eat MRE's

And my children

Attend Ghetto University

Statue of Liberty

Never done nothin for me

Never gave me liberty

Only slavery

Only poverty

Amistad say

"Give us free"

But in America

Ain't nothin free

Freedom

Only for the wealthy

Our Contributors

ALBERT A. OLOFINNIKA is an educator, entrepreneur, author, poet, reviewer and promoter of Children's Literature. He is also a contributor to a wide array of newsletters, e-magazines, poetry blogs and websites. He has chosen to write for children because they have captured his heart and he wants to continue helping them discover, through his writings, that the world is a wonderful place. Adedayo wants to offer children many resources to help them cope with many of today's growing pains and he also wants to help keep them entertained by bringing joy into their lives through his poems and writings. albdolfinik@gmail.com

ANTINEA MAYE CARPENTER is a 35 year old married woman, a mother of 7 beautiful children, a stay at home mom and a Lupus survivor. She loves to write, read and spend time with her family and she also loves to cook just about anything. She has been writing poetry since the age of 15 and just began writing short stories. She is looking forward to publishing her first novel which she has worked on for the past 7 years. She published her first book of poetry, "My Spoken Passion" in 2009. Writing is her passion as well as raising awareness for Lupus research and her ultimate goal is to become a successful writer and accomplish a degree in Journalism. antineaspassion@gmail.com

APRIL DEEP ARIES is a poet/hostess speaker from Detroit and suburban Michigan. April is, also, a published author and blog talk radio hostess, who interviews artists from all walks of life. April writes from the heart about subjects that range from love to finding peace and spirituality combined with a love of old school originality in music and movies. "Deep Aries" comes from her sign as being an Aries and being called Deep as far as the way she thinks and just for being herself. If someone can't help her with something, she will find a way to do it herself. Through ups and downs, she is still around. It's only the beginning. Bachelor of Business. "To thy own self be true" – William Shakespeare" ariesg@yahoo.com

ALLEN JOHNSON has been writing since the age of 10. He has a degree in computer science nad he likes to write, work with troubled kids and most of my writings are created to inspire and help others cope with todays challenges. kool2bme1@yahoo.com

CARLET HORNE is an graduate of Whiteville High School who attended New York University and South Eastern Community College. She studied Business Administration and Education. Her very first piece was written in 2008 and she thought that this was just a one-time occurrence and put her pen and pad on the shelf. However, in 2010, in the timing of God, the gift within was unlocked, and she began to write under the function of God. Today, she is a Poet, Writer, and Aspiring Author, working on the publication of her first book of Christian poetry and a Contributing Poet & Writer for Promoting Purpose Magazines. Other examples of her work can be seen on Timbooktu.com and in Black Pearls Magazine a magazine created for the inspired women. gfmember2005@hotmail.com

CALVIN HENDERSON _was raised in Augusta, Ga. His real name is Rufus C. Henderson and he is also aspiring poet. He would say that poetry is his life. He feels that there is a need for inspiration and ovation in our world today. He is 46 years old and through his poetry, expresses himself by using his life lessons as motivation to others. Through all of his trials and tribulations, he is still here with us and a living testimony to the saying, "I know there's is a God somewhere" Pocalvin4@yahoo.com_

C.HIGHSMITH-HOOKS _is a poet and novelist who has been writing all her life. When she is not writing, she enjoys watching crime thrillers, traveling , and surfing the internet. She has a B.S. in Criminal Justice and a Master's degree in Forensic Science. She's a mom who is working a traditional 9 to 5 until the pen pays her bills. She can't wait! chighsmithhooks@hotmail.com_

CHARRON MONAYE _is the mother of 2 beautiful & talented children. This native from Philadelphia, PA is also a Songwriter, Screenwriter, Poet, Humanitarian, Author & the Co-Founder of the T.P.L project. She is the author of the book "My Side of the Story" which was recently selected to be a stage play. You can learn more about this rising star._ www.charronmonaye.com _E-mail_ _charron.monaye@gmail.com_

CHERYL D FAISON _has been exploring her gift of creative writing since she was 8 years old. A huge fan of Emily Dickenson, she notes that her favorite poem is "Because I Could Not Stop for Death." It is her goal, like the great Dickenson, to be immortalized through her writings. Her desire is to leave an indelible mark on humanity that will be a catalyst for provocative change to better society as we know it. Ms. Faison balances her life as a Mother, Daughter, Sister & Diva presently residing in her native home of Alabama with her son. cherylfaison@gmail.com_

_DAMIAN KNOX AKA MUTUO CONSENSU_ _(meaning, with mutual consent) was born and raised in Washington D.C. and is currently living in the Atlanta, Georgia region, A divorced father of three boys and is a self employed Physical Security Technician. Damian found his love of all things art-related (writing/playing music) and creative as a child and writes now because "to not write is like dying inside". In addition to writing poetry, commentary on human relations and erotica, he is interested in building his own woodworking shop for the design and construction of unique furniture._

_He works with computers and technology out of an occupational need, but his love is for creating, working with his hands and the more sensual and organic things in life._

orpheus01@gmail.com

DARCOVA TRIPLET Lives with her husband and three princesses in Las Vegas, Nevada. She enjoys making jewelry and painting. Other published works by the author are Harmonious Contradictions: Expressions for the Journey from Alpha to Omega (2007), Smart Girls are Cool (2009) and Strut: A Collection of Words about the Woman's Walk (2011) darcova@yahoo.com.

DEBRA ELLIOTT is a Christian author from Birmingham, Alabama. Her works include two published poetry books and inclusion in several Christian anthologies. Debra is also the author of six blogs. In her spare time she enjoys spending time with her grandson. Anngrayelliott1960@gmail.com

DONNA BALLARD CARTER _is a woman who constantly has "Love" on her mind. She is a writer that has often been called "The Queen of Romance" and "The Vera Wang of Poetry" by family, friends, clients, and fans for her Sultry and Sensual Scribes. When she is not writing about Intimacy, Love, Passion, or Romance she can be found spreading her own special brand of Love through her business Cupid's Little Helper. She is a woman who is determined to somehow fill each life with just a little more "Love" each and every day. ballarddonna@hotmail.com_

EMMANUEL BROWN i _s a publisher who promotes positive influences. A self-proclaimed and undisputed metaphoric beast who serves as a motivationalspeaker in his local community, colleges, and county jails, where he emphasizes the importance of being positive. E.Brown@seeinggrowth.com_

FABIOLA SULLY _was born in Brooklyn, New York, but is currently living in Long Island. She works in the medical field and writes part time. She has been writing since high school and it has helped aid her during all facets of her life. She published her first book entitled, "Finding the Way Home" in 2001. However, in 2009, she re-published, "Finding the Way Home" with a different company and added additional poems. She has read for blogs and at poetry readings and would like toparti-cipate in more events in the near future. She has also taken part in The Harlem Book Fair. Other than writing, she enjoys music, reading and art. Samples of her work can be found at: myspace.com /fabio laakamysticpoet or_ _mysticpoet729@gmail.com_

FIORDALIZA CHARLES is a mother of a beautiful teen, a self published writer, poet and author and one of the CEO's of the T.P.L project and publications LLC. She is working together with author Charron Monaye to create a series of books that will help to showcase some of the best writers and poets worldwide. She is currently also working on writing more novels and poetry books. She hopes to become a motivational speaker as she continues to promote positive brands in the community. authorfcharles.com

JOYCE P. JONES was aka Quiet Emerald and did a short spell on the London poetry circuit back in 2002.Joyce headlined with Nii Parkes, Vanessa Richards and the formidable Zena Edwards.Joyce in London, England and is writing her first novel. Joyce loves the written word and works in the management consultancy industry. Quietconsult@yahoo.co.uk

KATRINA GURL Since becoming an author in 2009 with her first book of short stories, Katrina Gurl has been going strong ever since. The California resident has astonishing avid readers alike. Katrina is best known for her bodacious writing style. She is not afraid to remind couples that it is imperative to please one another mentally as well as physically and that it is okay to fulfill reasonable fantasies to make sex fun,

spontaneous and pleasurable. Katrina's number one goal is to bring back healthy and loving relationships that will last a lifetime. katrinagur@ymail.com

KELLI "SONGBIRD" GARDEN is a Mother, Author, Poet, Lyricist, Vocalist, & Entrepreneur. She started writing poetry in the 7th grade as an outlet. "I have works currently in five different anthologies", she stated. Her first book of poetry entitled, "Through The Storms", was published in 2010. A Host and Producer/Co-host of two Blogtalk Radio Shows, Kelli is making moves. She is also looking to start a Domestic Violence Awareness Chapter with Saving Lives Through Lit. songbird331@gmail. com

LESLIE B. POLLARD Is an author/poet from Long view, TX. He is married and has one son. Although he goes by Les Pollard many family members know him by his middle name but prefers to be called "Les". He has written over 500 poems over the years and continues to write. In addition to writing he enjoys playing volleyball, ping pong, and loves to laugh and travel when possible. He has been writing poetry since the age of 13 and still continues to write. les.pollard@yahoo.com

LONNIESHA"FLOETPOET" JACKSON was born & raised in North Carolina, a student of Ashford University (on-line) and simply adores writing. She began writing poetry at an early age and also writes short stories of horror as well. Poetry be stills her heart and she is very passionate about her craft. She is currently attending Ashford to obtain her Bachelor degree in Health Care. She writes every single day, determined to make a name for herself, in all aspects of the writing world. Even though, one definitely has nothing to do with the other, there is nothing but great things to come, for this Virgo. mslrjackson@yahoo.com

LUELLA HILL-DUDLEY is the Vice President of International Black Writers & Artist Inc, award winner author and poetess with several publication titles "The Reflection of My Mind" and "Solid As A Rock I Stand". Both of these publications are being used in junior colleges as textbooks. Channel 20 News team did a cover story on Mrs. Hill-Dudley when she made her appearance at Laney College in Oakland, CA. Mrs. Hill-Dudley also presented to Walden House women in San Francisco,CA. Her works is also seen in many anthologies. Mrs. Hill-Dudley is currently working on a new book release titled "Piece of Mind" coming soon in 2012. Her focused currently on addressing life challenges and building inspiration in very difficult and sensitive situations. luelladudley@sbcglobal.net

MARQUES LEWIS is a 26 years old, single man that loves to write and express his feelings. He is the author of "The Road to The Perfect Guy" which debut Mid-October at rwjpublishinginc.com. He is also a Director of Adverting and Promotion at RWJ Publishing Inc. He loves to write short stories, poetry, and erotica and romance stories etc. Some of his latest work can be viewed on his face book page. He can be reached via facebook by name and you can also follow him on twitter @Marques_Lewis.

MARZANA ISLAM aka Marzii is of British Asia background lives with her family, is a Student studying BA hons Illustration at London metropolitan University, Loves poetry, writing stories, Illustration and Photography. Has published a book called "Matchmaking the Nerd" via Amazon. Loves walking, playing video games and taking photos. Marzana.Islam@Live.co.uk

PATRICIA "CHINA" HUNT was born and raised Bronx Queen of both hispanic and african american decent. She shares her enternal life with her Loyal King Pierre Hunt and her son Shaunteece, a very educated and sopshticaed woman She writes poetry as her escape. Poetry is her driven by passion, sexually and emotiontionally. She tends to write about erotic encounters over other types of poetry because its what she thinks of the most. She likes to lay down on the ground in the park when its nice and get lost ion the sky imagining that she is a Sex Queens that enforces all to bow before her and her King. She finds most of her inspiration from her past and her future. She can honestly say she might be more intoxicated by herself when she feeds her inspiration. beauty4909@gmail.com

RAMONA JONES is currently living in Fort Lauderdale, Florida where she is a teacher of gifted children. While teaching is her passion, writing poetry has managed to join the ranks in just a few short years. Some of her poetry has been featured in Strut: A Collection of Words about the Woman's Walk, authored by Dr. Darcova Triplett and also The Poetic Lounge Volume One, compiled by Fiordaliza Charles and Charron Monaye. Everyday she bring her love for writing into her classroom where many of my students are blossoming

into great writers. facebook.com/jonesy1922

RICO REVELS is a 27 year old poet living in Atlanta, GA. He reads his poetry at various venues around Atlanta and has shared the stage with some of Atlanta's best poets. Writing is what he loves to do and he is also grateful to be able to showcase his work in this project. He covers many issues within his poetry which he will soon showcase for himself because he is working on his own book of poetry to be entitled "Twisted Words". He is honored to have been featured in "T.P.L" Vol. 1. and he is also an advocate for Epilepsy since he has sufferer various social issues. Nicknames mainly Genius, Simple Genius, or Genius Ebony (Black Genius) but at the end of the day he is just Rico and he is just a poet. dasimplegenius@yahoo.com

ROBERTO D. STYLES is a published poet/author who has been writing for over 20 years, he has three books released. He also writes inspirational as well as socially conscious pieces to create awareness in the many challenges. He has a deep passion for the art of written expression and he also enjoys networking and reading other talented authors work that he had the wonderful privilege of meeting. His facebook author page is: Poet Author Roberto Denaro Styles.

SEAN STEWART AKA FREESTAYFREE is living his days writing about the love of his kids and giving his last days away spending time with the people he loves. He was diagnosed with Sclerosis in 2005. His disease prevents him from physical work even though he is currently studying psychology and attending college for the third time in his life. He writes about the love of life and says "money is nothing, time is everything." His works include spirituality, erotica and abstract thoughts placed into poetical art. officialfreestayfree@yahoo.com

SHANTA L DAVIS is from Saint Louis, Missouri. She enjoys Sociology and Science and has a degree in Medical Transcription. She has a passion for cooking, reading and writing. She is resourceful at heart. She realized her soul searching methods for writing through entering creative writing contests and spelling bees in the 7th grade. Upon reading the urban novel, "True to

The Game" by Teri Woods, she gained the encouragement needed to pick up where she'd left off once again. She has two adorable children, who inspires her will to succeed abundantly as well as adventure into writing children stories msshantalyn03@ yahoo.com

TANEISHA GRACE Is primarily a student, engaged to be married this December. She writes because it's her passion and number one goal in life. Aside from writing poetry, she also writes novels and screenplays. She loves reading poetry just as much as she enjoys writing and hopes to gain the same level of attention when people read her work. taneisha.grace@yahoo.com

THORNNE E. XAIVIANTT- Is a father to a beautiful 7 year old son. He enjoys reading and writing poetry as well as short stories He enjoys the martial arts and various types of music. xmanxpress@yahoo.com

TIFFANY CHRISTINA LEWIS is a mother of one, a social worker and an aspiring business woman. She has been writing since her adolescence. Her passion for writing took a backseat to a career in Education as well as her personal education. Although her love for children is unwavering, she is now determined to start her career as a writer. In May 2011, she was honored to have her work published for the first time. Tiffany has taken a vow to never publish her own work because she feels that there is nothing better than having another person love your work and want to say that they published it first. Find reviews and links to her other works at about.me /Tiffany ChristinaLewis.

URBAN POET was born and raised on the westside of Chicago - the ghetto. After many years of trials and tribulations, Urban decided to rise above his circumstances and enrolled into college. While in college urban used student loans and grant funding to purchase stocks in the stock market. Urban graduated in 2002 with a B.S. in accounting, a MBA and a significant investment portfolio. Urban rose quickly through the ranks of "Corporate America" due to his toughness and discipline which he gained on the streets of Chicago. Urban, currently works with CEO's, CFO's, Wall Street institutional investors and individual investors. Urban's writings are gritty and urban and his perspective reflects the "streets" and Wall Street. View all of Urban Poet's writings on Facebook.

Note To The Reader

We truly hope that you enjoyed reading this anthology of the poetic lounge project. This particular book introduces more amazing poets as well as writers. These are some of the best poets and writers worldwide and they hope to leave you ultimately wanting more.

We ask that you please do not copy, duplicate or alternate any parts of this book unless; you are given verbal or written permission from one of the compilers, poets and/or writers.

If you have any feedback that you will like to submit, please direct them to the actual poet and/or writer and also please feel free to contact either myself or Charron Monaye.

Thank you again for all your support over the years and we truly hope that you continue to support us.

To participate as an writer or poet please visit us at http://thepoeticlounge.com. If you have any questions please use our contact us page or you may email us at:

thepoeticlounge@gmail.com

