 
The Offices of M. Coopersmith

Copyright 2012 by James Hampton

Smashwords edition

All rights reserved.

# THE OFFICES OF M. COOPERSMITH

1

How well do you ever really know somebody else?

It depends.

With some folks it might take years to understand them. Others you may not fully comprehend in a lifetime.

But where a few unique individuals are concerned, you can learn all you need to know in a single night.

Just ask Christopher Taylor and Samantha Gibbons, two high school students from the small town of Summerville, Georgia. They'll tell you.

***

"So, what does that guy actually do?"

Almost any conversation regarding M. Coopersmith would include this question sooner or later—usually sooner. But a lot of people have a hard time confessing they simply don't know something. They can admit they aren't sure, but clueless? That's not so easy.

Let's say you were to visit the town of Summerville, Georgia, and ask the man or woman on the street just what sort of business went on at the Offices of M. Coopersmith. Here are some of the answers you would likely get:

"I heard he's a lawyer."

"I heard he owns a lot of real estate."

"I heard he's an accountant."

"I heard he's a stock broker."

But nobody would be able to tell you for certain. And how could they? M. Coopersmith himself was notorious for being vague. "A little of this, a little of that," was his basic reply to the question of what he did for a living. Yes, he might throw in a bit of information on his past investments: maybe his onetime stake in a local feed store, or his former ownership of a tract of timberland in the northern part of the county. Good Southern manners usually kept the townsfolk from pressing him further. And probably for that reason, more than any other, the kindly M. Coopersmith remained a mystery. Even his first name was a matter of conjecture. Old timers remembered how a Maxamillien Coopersmith had once occupied the same small brick building, constructed circa 1898, at the corner of Bridgewell and Tanner Streets, in downtown Summerville. They just assumed this was his son or maybe his grandson now in possession of it. When these old timers were young, it seemed their parents had made reference to a certain Magnus Coopersmith who worked out of that building. So maybe this was a Max, Jr., or a Michael, or some other guy in the family whose first name started with M.

Mystery aside, there was nothing sinister in the aspect of M. Coopersmith, nor even odd. He was seldom seen in public, but longtime residents usually recognized him.

"I think that was M. Coopersmith," someone might say after he had passed by.

And yes, maybe it was M. Coopersmith: a lean man with neatly-combed silver hair, greeting pleasantly all those whose gaze he met; the nice fellow who lived in a large white Victorian house in the old part of Summerville, and who conducted his business, whatever it was, from the unremarkable building at the corner of Bridgewell and Tanner. The casual observer could have been forgiven for not noticing his workplace at all. It looked like just another house, aside from one detail: on its oak-shaded front lawn stood a post with a thin wooden sign hanging from it; that sign read, in plain black lettering, "Offices of M. Coopersmith."

2

It's going to be a great night, thought Christopher Gerald Taylor as the final bell rang and the curtain fell on yet another monotonous day of school. He stuffed his Algebra book and all the papers that went with it into his backpack, then zipped it up and headed for the door.

It would be a great night because at long last his wish would be fulfilled. Not his wish to meet the mysterious M. Coopersmith; about this, he cared nothing at all. As a lifelong resident of Summerville, he was well aware of M. Coopersmith's penchant for secrecy. It just wasn't a burning desire of his, the way it seemed to be with the town gossips, to know how the man earned a living. No, what fired Chris' red-hot teenaged heart was the idea of going to the Offices of M. Coopersmith with Samantha Gibbons, the lovely junior who also happened to be his direct superior on the Summerville High School Yearbook Committee. For so very long he had dreamed of spending some quality alone-time with Samantha. And now, finally, he was on the verge of getting it. Chris had first seen Samantha in the hallway when he was a freshman and she was a sophomore. From that moment, he was smitten. Who was this beautiful girl with the long shiny auburn hair and the deep blue eyes? While there were a number of girls in his own grade who caught his attention, it was Samantha Gibbons to whom his thoughts returned most often, even though she hadn't known him at all until a few weeks ago. But Chris knew her, all right. Since that initial glimpse sixteen months ago, he had been collecting snippets of information on this alluring older woman: he had pored over his freshman yearbook and found her name; then he had looked in the section for club and team photographs and found her extracurricular activities. When he saw that she was on the Yearbook Committee, he hit upon, or at least thought he'd hit upon, a marvelous way of getting better acquainted with Samantha while at the same time padding his college application.

How did Chris rate his chances with her? Well, he wasn't unrealistic. Much to his chagrin, Samantha had a boyfriend, a handsome football player in his senior year, and Chris understood that the odds of him winning her over, at least initially, were pretty steep. Chris was tall and very thin, almost skeletal by his own reckoning, with shaggy brown hair and large dark eyes, and he bore a special burden of self-consciousness over what he considered an Adam's Apple that was much too big for his neck. He played no sports and was a solid but unexceptional student. So Chris had a pretty good handle on his shortcomings, real and imagined. But he had to try, didn't he? And there were other ways he felt he could compete with her football stud. For one thing, he thought he was a pretty funny guy. Other kids, or at least other sophomores, seemed to agree. He prided himself on being conversational. He treated people with kindness. Maybe, just maybe, if Samantha saw what a good person he was, and overlooked the insignificant difference in age, he would have a chance with her...slight, yes, but a chance.

Here was the challenge: Chris would have to find an opportunity to show her just what a charmer he could be.

And here, finally, was the solution: the Committee's faculty advisor, Mrs. Huggins, had suggested that the more experienced hands on the Committee, like Samantha, pair up with newer members, like Chris, to jointly solicit ads. Then, as if by magic, Chris and Samantha had been made into a team.

Yes, magic was the only explanation.

Chris had joined the Yearbook Committee a mere three weeks ago, and the Committee's meeting yesterday afternoon had been the first he attended. Never saying a word, Chris had taken a seat at the table around which sat the eleven members of the Committee. There had been one seat left open when the meeting convened: the seat next to him. Samantha had been late arriving; Chris feared for a moment that she had quit. But then she glided into the room, and, saying nothing to the boy, took the chair beside him.

Shortly thereafter, Mrs. Huggins made her proposal, which was accepted by the Committee (as if they had a choice) and then she simply went around the table, pairing compatible students together. She got to Chris and Samantha last.

So it was magic. It had to be.

When the meeting was over, Chris turned to Samantha and stammered, "I'm...looking forward to working with you."

"Yeah," Samantha said, though her voice was non-committal, "me too." Then she pulled out her cell phone and started on a text message...or acted like she was starting one, anyway. Chris didn't know. But even if she was trying to ignore him, they were going to have to work together. They were going to have to interact. And during these periods of interaction, Chris planned to do everything he could to get her interested in him.

Most businesses in Summerville mailed a check to the Yearbook Committee. But a small minority preferred to have a representative from the Committee visit in person, to hand the money over. M. Coopersmith belonged to the latter group. It was a surprise to many people, given how reticent he seemed in dealing with the general public. But that was the way he liked to handle his contributions, and each year the Committee honored his request for at least one or two students to visit him in his office before any money was proffered.

***

Samantha had thrilled Chris earlier this morning by catching him in the hall and letting him know she would be going to the Offices of M. Coopersmith at four-thirty and that he was welcome, or at least she was giving him the option, to accompany her. She had barely gotten the words out before he took her up on her offer. Now he waited in the school parking lot, backpack at his feet, anxiously looking for Samantha and hoping she had not forgotten.

Today was probably the first day that Chris Taylor had ever been glad not to own a car. Plans for getting one were in the works, of course. He was due to start his job as a bus boy at the Summerville Country Club next week, and if he could put a decent amount of money down, then his parents would help him with the monthly payments. Chris Taylor, Sr., was a tugboat captain; his mother, Francis, a Church secretary. The Taylors were a family of limited means, but Mom and Dad meant to give Chris and his two younger brothers the best life they possibly could. Although his house was close enough to school that he could walk each day, nevertheless his parents wanted him to have a car. And maybe there hadn't been one in the driveway on his sixteenth birthday, but someday, there would be. Together, Chris and his parents would make it happen.

No sweat, though, if it didn't happen today. His lack of wheels meant that Samantha would have to take him with her to the Offices of M. Coopersmith, rather than the two of them just meeting there. She hadn't raised the latter possibility; was that a good sign, a sign that she actually wanted them to ride together? Chris had no idea. But he wasn't about to let the opportunity slip through his fingers. Once he had made her laugh a few times, he believed she would be happy to cart him from place to place. Maybe she would even offer him a ride home tonight.

He dared to hope, anyway.

"Hi, Chris," Samantha said, finally emerging from the school's main doorway. "Ready?"

"Ready," the boy answered. "How was your day today?"

"Fine." She walked past him, no doubt expecting Chris to fall in behind her...which he did, without hesitation.

And how was my day? Chris thought to himself. Oh, it was fine. Thanks for asking.

Samantha's car was a red Ford Mustang, a sleek and splendid machine, the perfect automobile for her. A pretty expensive model too, but no problem for the Gibbons family to afford, what with her dad, Richard Gibbons, being President of the First Bank of Summerville.

Samantha unlocked the doors and the two of them climbed inside.

"This is a really nice car," Chris told her, shutting the passenger side door.

"Thanks."

Samantha cranked up the Mustang; immediately, the air conditioner began shunting air into the cabin full blast.

She's barely talking to me.

Chris felt his heart sink, just a little.

Is she going to be like this the whole time?

But maybe he was expecting too much, too soon. It would take about five minutes to get to the Offices of M. Coopersmith. There was still time to get her talking to him. He didn't want to overwhelm her with his personality. Maybe, here at the start, it was just as well that he be reserved.

"Have you ever met this guy before?" Chris asked her after they were out of the parking lot and on their way.

"No."

"Do you know anybody who has?"

"Yeah," she said, "the girl who went to his office last year."

"Who was that?"

"Her name was Molly. You don't know her."

Chris blinked in surprise. What's that supposed to mean? How do you know if I know her or not? I mean, it's a good guess. I don't know anybody named Molly at our school, but still...it sounds like you're trying to cut me off.

"Okay," he said, and looked out the window.

His heart was really sinking now.

No offer of a ride home tonight, he was pretty sure.

A few minutes later the Mustang pulled into the four-space-wide, crushed-shell parking lot of the Offices of M. Coopersmith; no other vehicle was present, so maybe M. Coopersmith walked to work each day. But Chris barely noticed anything about the lot or the building. In the time elapsed since their initial exchange, no words had passed between him and Samantha; they had driven in silence. So Chris was borderline-despondent when he got out of the car. He had pictured the two of them talking and laughing on the way over. But the talking had been minimal and laughter, not even a possibility.

At this point, he wasn't even sure if he wanted to stay on the Yearbook Committee anymore.

Samantha got to the front door of the building first, gave the knob a turn. Her brow furrowed. "It's locked," she said.

"Locked?"

"Yes. Locked." Her voice had a sharpness Chris resented. Amazing, how a crush that had built up over more than a year had evaporated in a matter of minutes. At the rate things were going, by the time they were done here at the Offices of M. Coopersmith he wouldn't be able to stand her.

"All right, so let's try this." Chris stepped forward, knocked. He felt Samantha's eyes on him but didn't look at her. "Maybe he stepped out for a minute," he mused.

"Well, he said four-thirty."

Then Chris heard footsteps behind the door. "Here comes somebody," he said to her quietly.

The door unlocked from the inside, swung out to reveal M. Coopersmith, regal in his bearing yet without haughtiness. He wore a crisp white shirt and red tie. The smile on his cherubic face, with its prominent brow and fleshy cheeks, was not wide, but he wore it with such ease, such naturalness, that one could imagine smiling was something he practiced an awful lot.

"Had I locked the door?" he said in a pleasantly deep and sonorous voice, as though his vocal cords were fashioned from oak. "I'm so sorry. I must have locked it behind me when I came back from lunch." He held out his hand to Chris. "I'm Mr. Coopersmith.

He went for my hand first, Chris mocked Samantha in his head as he shook with M. Coopersmith. Yeah, maybe it's just because I'm standing closest, but I'll bet you still don't like it. Good.

"I'm Chris Taylor," he said. "We're the ones from the Yearbook Committee."

I'm taking the lead here, Sammy baby. What do you think about that?

"Good to meet you, Christopher. Yes, I thought that's who you were." M. Coopersmith looked at Samantha now, as did Chris. The boy was delighted to see a reddening of her cheeks.

"I'm Samantha Gibbons," she announced, extending her hand.

You're really mad, aren't you? Well, too bad. You should have been nicer to me. I don't care about riding with you anymore. You can leave me after this. I can walk home even from here. I'd be glad to, actually.

"Samantha," M. Coopersmith said. "It's a pleasure to meet you as well. Please come inside." He bowed as the pair stepped into the lobby. "And welcome to my office."

So this is how it looks in here, Chris thought, gazing around the lobby, which was minimally decorated to say the least. There were couple of chairs and some generic prints of shrimp boats and flowers. That was about it.

"Can I offer you any refreshments?" M. Coopersmith, clasping his hands together. "I have tea, fruit juice, bottled water..."

"I'm fine," Samantha said. "Thanks, though."

"I'm fine too," Chris answered.

"You know, it was a young lady named Molly who came here last year. A very nice girl," M. Coopersmith recalled. "How is she?"

"That was Molly Simpson," Samantha informed him. "She graduated. She's at Georgia Southern now."

Samantha was regaining control of the visit, which was fine with Chris. He didn't want to antagonize her any more than he already had. He just wanted to get this over with and go home. "Ah! So glad to hear it," M. Coopersmith remarked, turning. "Follow me, children. I have your check in my office."

"Children," Chris thought. Something struck him as old-fashioned, even antiquated, about M. Coopersmith's way of speaking. Maybe, being the reclusive type, he wasn't familiar with how ordinary people talked these days.

They followed M. Coopersmith into his office, which boasted even less warmth than his lobby. There were no pictures of any kind on the gray walls or the imperious mahogany desk. Humming tunelessly, M. Coopersmith went to that desk, opened the top drawer, and pulled out a plain white envelope with "Summerville High Yearbook" scrawled in blue ink on it.

"Here we are," he said, handing the envelope to Samantha. "There's something you should know. I'm sorry to say that this will be my last year of contributing. I'm retiring, you see."

Retiring from what? Chris wondered, but didn't ask.

"I'm sorry to hear that, Mr. Coopersmith," Samantha said. "We've really appreciated all your support."

"I was glad to do it. But open the envelope and look at the check, will you? Just so I know it's made out correctly."

Samantha complied and glanced at the check inside. She gasped. "Oh, Mr. Coopersmith, this is way too much..."

"I thought you might be surprised at the amount," said M. Coopersmith, grinning. "But don't worry. There's a method to my madness. This check is enough to cover the next ten years of contributions for me, assuming ad rates remain the same for your Yearbook. The committee can use it in installments or all at once, whatever you please. It won't be my money after I hand it over, so feel free to decide what you want to do with it. That's because after tonight, I won't be living in Summerville anymore."

"You're leaving? Where are you going?"

M. Coopersmith winked at her. "I'll be traveling."

"You're actually leaving Summerville permanently?" Chris interjected; he hadn't liked being left out of the conversation so far.

"Oh, I may come back for a visit from time to time," replied M. Coopersmith. "But yes, I think this will be a permanent move."

Samantha asked him, "Who's going to take care of your building?"

"I've donated it to the county," said M. Coopersmith, "and I've done the same with my house. I'm sure they'll find good uses for both. I hope they do, anyway."

Chris' iPhone chimed from his pants pocket: it had received a text message. He pulled it out and saw the message was from his mother. "Excuse me just one second," he said to M. Coopersmith, purposely ignoring Samantha. "I need to answer this."

"Of course," said M. Coopersmith. He and Samantha resumed their discussion, with M. Coopersmith providing some of the possibilities for what the County might do with his property.

Chris scanned his mother's text message: "Stopping at McDonalds for everybody on way home. What you want?"

Chris texted back: "Nothing. Busy now. Will be home later."

He set the phone down on a small metal table against the wall opposite the desk. He thought she might text him back and didn't want to dig it out of his pocket again.

Chris now re-focused on the announcement M. Coopersmith had just made. At the first lull in the dialogue between M. Coopersmith and Samantha, he cut in: "My grandfather told me this building has had an M. Coopersmith in it since before he was born."

M. Coopersmith raised an eyebrow. "What is your grandfather's name, may I ask?"

"Bertrand Taylor."

"That's interesting," M. Coopersmith said, rubbing his chin. "It just so happens that back in, oh, I think it was 1931 or thereabouts, a little red-headed fellow named Bertie Taylor put a baseball through the front window of this office. In those days there was a vacant lot across the street where the local children used to come and play baseball, stickball, and so forth. Quite by accident this happened, of course. But do you know what he did afterward?"

"No, sir," Chris said.

"He marched right over and apologized to my grandfather, Magnus, face to face. Brave little boy, don't you think? He said he would pay for fixing the glass with his own money. He didn't try to run away or deny responsibility, as some other children might have done. He just owned up to his offense right then and there. And I have to tell you, my grandfather was highly impressed."

"He didn't get mad?"

"Oh, he couldn't have gotten mad," insisted M. Coopersmith, "not at an honest boy like that. He just told young Bertie not to worry about it. Accidents happen. This was during the Great Depression, remember. There was very little work to be had anyway, and he certainly didn't want the child's family to take financial responsibility, especially at such a dire time. So he just accepted the boy's apology and told him to get back to his game."

"That was nice of him."

"Well, it seemed like the right thing to do. At least I'm sure that's what my grandfather thought. Did your grandfather ever tell you a story like this?"

"No, sir," Chris answered, "not that I can remember, anyway."

"Tell you what," M. Coopersmith said, a sly look coming onto his face, "next time you see your old grandpa, ask him if his friends ever called him 'Bertie' when he was a boy."

Chris bit his lip. "I can't really do that, Mr. Coopersmith. He died three years ago."

M. Coopersmith's smile vanished. "Oh. Oh, well, I'm sorry to hear that. Was it in the paper?"

"I'm sure it was."

"I see. Well, please give my condolences to your family."

"Yes, sir," Chris said.

After a moment's pause, Samantha said, "Well, thank you for this check, Mr. Coopersmith."

"You're very welcome."

"I guess we shouldn't keep you any longer," she added, clearly looking for an exit. Chris nodded in agreement. Although M. Coopersmith seemed like a nice fellow, he also seemed to be the type who could talk for a long time about practically anything.

"You're not keeping me," said M. Coopersmith, confirming Chris' suspicion. Then, glancing out the window, he observed, "But it is getting late, I see."

As they walked out of the office and back into the lobby, Chris asked him, "So where will you be traveling to?"

"Oh, here and there," responded M. Coopersmith, dashing ahead to open the front door for the two of them, "everywhere."

Of course, Chris thought.

After a final round of goodbyes, they left M. Coopersmith standing in the doorway. "Be careful driving home," he called after them.

"How are you getting home from the school?" Samantha asked Chris as they got into her car. The thought, apparently, had never crossed her mind.

"I normally walk."

She turned the key in the ignition. "Do you want me to give you a ride?" Her tone was curt, businesslike.

"You don't have to. I mean, it'd be nice. But you don't have to."

"I'll give you a ride," she said.

Chris appreciated the gesture. Things had soured a bit, but maybe the night wouldn't end on a completely abysmal note. She didn't have to give him a ride, but she was willing to do it. That counted for something in the boy's mind. Even if his fixation on her was gone, there was a slim chance, Chris thought, they might end up liking each other a little bit after this.

So not a total loss, then, this trip to the Offices of M. Coopersmith...a trip from which, in hindsight, Chris had wanted way too much.

"Thank you," he said.

"No problem. Just tell me how to get there."

As they pulled out of the parking lot, Chris began giving her directions to his house. While he spoke, he noticed that M. Coopersmith was still standing in the doorway of his office, watching them. The old gentleman raised his hand in a final wave, and then disappeared back inside. The door closed slowly behind him.

3

A few blocks over from the Offices of M. Coopersmith lay the poorest section of Summerville: a sprawling neighborhood called Brickman. It was a sad stretch of cityscape, replete with shotgun houses, poorly maintained trees, wild shrubbery, packs of feral dogs, and half-collapsed wire fences. And at the same moment that Chris and Samantha were departing the Offices of M. Coopersmith, two more travelers were arriving...with the same destination in mind.

Even at twilight these newcomers, given their size and lack of concern over being detected, would have been easy to spot—that is, had anyone been around to notice. In the gloom of early evening they descended slowly, at once beautiful and terrible in appearance: gleaming, twirling, ribbon-like creatures that had dropped out of the sunset-tinged clouds moments ago and now drifted to the ground in a monstrous interlocking spiral. No doubt that, had pedestrians been present, a crowd would have formed to watch the extraordinary sight of the beasts reaching the surface. But the street onto which they sank was deserted at the moment, and it was a good thing too. For no human being who saw them, and did not flee at once afterward, would have lived to tell the tale...

***

"I've forgotten my phone." As he spoke these words, Chris felt the back of his neck grow hot, flushed with embarrassment.

"Oh, Chris," Samantha groaned. "Tell me you didn't."

Again the boy rifled through his pants pockets, but knew it wasn't there.

"I don't have it," he said, unable to keep the despair out of his voice. The iPhone was an expensive device. If he had lost it, he was going to take a major ass-chewing when he got home. Even worse, he wasn't getting a replacement phone. Worse still, he had all kinds of text messages on the thing right now, and whoever found the phone was bound to see them. But absolute worst of all, while Chris had text messages from many friends and even some girls, it would be easy for the same nosy person to see that the single largest exchange of text messages had been between Chris...and his mom.

They were "mom-type" messages too: When was he coming home? Here's what they were having for dinner tonight. Had he taken out the garbage that morning? He had left his dirty clothes on the bathroom floor again. Love you, baby.

Yes, mom messages, there for the world to see. He would never be able to show his face in public again.

Only a few minutes into their drive Chris had felt strangely lighter, less weighed down. He didn't realize at first what he was missing, just that he had less gear on his body than normal.

And then it hit him. He reached into his pockets and clawed at emptiness.

So the slight improvement in the mood of the Mustang's cabin was now gone. Samantha was mad, he could tell. And no doubt she wanted him to be able to tell.

"I forgot it," he blathered. "I'm sorry. I must have set it down in Coopersmith's office while we were talking. That's the only place it could be."

Samantha shook her head. "I can't believe this."

"Look, just stop the car and let me out here. I'll walk back to Coopersmith's office and get it. Then I'll walk home afterwards."

"That's stupid, Chris. It's after dark. You don't need to be walking the streets of downtown Summerville after dark." Then, her tone calibrated to show maximum irritation, she growled, "I'll take you."

"I'm sorry," Chris repeated after a moment.

"No, it's fine," Samantha said as she pulled into the parking lot of the local Hardees to turn around. Of course, she had made it obvious that things were not fine. Not remotely.

And, of course, night was falling fast.

***

It was almost dark by the time they returned to the Offices of M. Coopersmith. Chris clambered out of the car and went to the front door, knocked, got no answer. He knocked again and still got no answer. Expression pitiful, he looked back at Samantha, waiting for him in the idling car with the windows up and the radio playing. She saw him and rolled her window down.

"Is he not there?" she called out.

Chris shook his head. "No. He must have gone home."

"Maybe you can get it tomorrow."

"But he won't be here tomorrow," Chris whined, and then he heard the door unlocking for the second time today.

What a relief, the boy thought.

M. Coopersmith poked his head out, smiled down at the distraught teenager.

"Why hello, there," he boomed. "Back again for another visit?"

"I think I left my phone here," Chris said meekly, "in your office."

"Ah! Well, come right in," said M. Coopersmith, opening the door fully and stepping aside for Chris to enter. "We'll find it."

"I'm really sorry to bother you like this," a sheepish Chris said as he came into the lobby.

"You're not bothering me at all," M. Coopersmith assured the boy. Together they went back into the office, to have a look round.

***

Samantha adjusted the radio dial, settling on Summerville's local Top 40 Station. Then she leaned back and sighed.

"Hurry up, you idiot," she mumbled, glaring at the office.

***

To his great joy, Chris spotted the phone the instant he set foot inside the back office, sitting right there on the table where had left it. He snatched the phone up, let out a great relieved sigh.

M. Coopersmith came up behind him. "Find it?"

Chris turned. "Yes, sir, this is it."

"I wish I had noticed it before you left."

"No, that's okay. It's my fault. I should have been more careful. I was just...stupid."

"Everybody loses things," M. Coopersmith said. "We're only human."

***

"What's taking so long?" Samantha wondered aloud. She switched off the radio, then the car, and got out. Either the phone was in there or it wasn't. And since the phone was almost certainly in there, what was the holdup?

Maybe Chris and M. Coopersmith had gotten to talking, with M. Coopersmith recounting yet another boring anecdote about Chris' grandfather Bertie or Herby or whatever the guy's name was. If so, she wanted their conversation ended now, or else M. Coopersmith could be responsible for taking Chris home, which would be fine with her. She'd had enough of this child.

Uncomfortable with the gloom and the sense of desertedness here in downtown Summerville tonight, she made her way quickly toward the front door.

***

"Well, Christopher, once again I enjoyed meeting you and your partner tonight," said M. Coopersmith as he walked the boy back out into the lobby. "Samantha, was it?"

"Yes, sir."

"I always like to meet promising young people. That's the reason I force all of you to come out here. It's selfish of me, but I just can't help myself."

"We don't mind," Chris assured him. "We go pretty much anywhere for money."

***

Halfway to the door, Samantha heard a sound.

Was it a whisper? No.

Not a whisper, more like a hiss.

But not a snake's hiss; it reminded her more of a person trying to imitate a snake's hiss, lips slightly open, air shunting over and under teeth...it lasted for a few seconds, then cut off abruptly, as if those same lips had suddenly sealed.

She stopped, glanced back into the deepening night.

That hiss, or whatever it was, had been close.

Keep going, she told herself, and resumed her pace.

She felt a slight puff of wind against her cheek, enough to make her hair bounce. Then it was gone.

What was that?

Another puff of wind, stronger this time, and coming at her from a different angle. From above her, it seemed. It was as if an invisible person had chopped his hand just inches away from her head...his very large hand.

Samantha looked up.

Then she screamed.

***

On the other side of the door, in the lobby, Chris was just about to shake hands with M. Coopersmith again when he heard Samantha's cry. He jumped, but M. Coopersmith did not. Instead the older man immediately bounded for the door, with Chris, his initial shock overcome, following after. But the door burst open before they reached it and then Samantha barreled through, her face ashen, her eyes wild, into the arms of M. Coopersmith.

"Something's out there," she gasped. "It's...I don't know what."

She disentangled herself from M. Coopersmith, who dipped around her and went on to the door. He peered outside, frowning with concentration.

"Are you okay?" Chris asked Samantha as she tried to regain control of her breathing.

"Yeah, yeah, I'm okay. It just...I got scared." Chris thought she was on the verge of tears. He decided not to say anything more to her for the moment.

M. Coopersmith looked back at Samantha. "This thing," he said. "Can you tell me what it looked like?"

"No. It was so quick, I just...I just saw something and then I ran."

M. Coopersmith closed the door. "You don't suppose it was a large dog or something?"

"No! No! It wasn't on the ground," Samantha protested. "It was up in the air. It flew over me."

M. Coopersmith's brow furrowed.

"It wasn't a bird either. It wasn't anything like a bird..." And now she started to cry. "I don't know what it was."

Chris noticed a box of Kleenex on a table across the room. He went over and got a few pieces for Samantha, brought them back. He was becoming deeply unsettled: the girl's distress, the sound of whatever it was she thought she'd seen...

And there was something else that bothered him too: a subtle change in the demeanor of M. Coopersmith, who quickly locked the door and then took a step toward Samantha.

"My dear," he said gently. "Please listen to me. I know you can't identify what you saw, but did it remind you of anything?"

"What?" Samantha asked, wiping her eyes.

"It's important that you answer me as best you can. Did it remind you of anything, this creature you saw?"

"I don't know!"

"An eel, possibly?"

Before Samantha could answer, something heavy bumped against the door. M. Coopersmith spun round.

Then a second bump, harder this time.

"Children," said M. Coopersmith, his voice controlled but tense, "go into my office, please."

"What do you think it is?" Chris asked, heart thrashing in his chest.

"I know exactly what it is," M. Coopersmith answered, his back to the kids and his eyes still fixed on the door. "That's why I'm telling you to go to my office and wait for me there."

"Okay," Chris said, taking a step back.

But Samantha didn't move. "Do you want us to call the police?"

"No, thank you."

"Come on, Samantha, let's just go," Chris urged, taking her arm.

She jerked away from him, addressed M. Coopersmith again. "Why not? Shouldn't we just—?"

M. Coopersmith cut her off. "You would be killing whoever you called here. There's not a human being alive who's a match for what's outside this office right now. And if you want to survive this night, you'll do as I say. Now go!"

Chris had heard all he needed to hear. They could hold the Question & Answer session later. Apparently Samantha was now on the same program, for this time she did not argue. The pair scampered back into his office. As they crossed the threshold of that office, M. Coopersmith called out, "And stay away from the window!"

In the office now, silence: just the sound of Chris and Samantha breathing heavily as they stood there, awaiting the next command from M. Coopersmith.

"What do we do?" Samantha asked him.

"I don't know," Chris answered. "I don't know."

He glanced through the office's single window, saw only darkness, and then back at Samantha. "What Coopersmith said just a minute ago...did it make sense to you?"

"Did what make sense?"

"About what it looked like. When he asked if it looked like an eel. Did that make sense?"

"No. No, it didn't." But her answer lacked conviction.

"Okay," Chris said, and once again turned his attention to the window.

Thirty seconds passed...then a minute.

Chris moved toward the window.

Yes, M. Coopersmith had said to stay away from the windows, but it wasn't as if he were pressing his face up against it. He would just move a bit closer, see if he too could catch a glimpse of whatever ghastly apparition had so frightened Samantha and so concerned M. Coopersmith.

That would be all right, wouldn't it? If he just moved a bit closer...

The vista beyond the glass began to take shape as he made his approach. First it was solid black. Then the shapes of trees became visible, and part of Tanner Street. Outside it was the same world, yes, utterly the same but for the absence of sunlight...

Then the window became black again.

The world beyond the glass had been blotted out. Something had come between Chris and that world.

Something large.

Something airborne.

Something in its shape and movement, the boy realized as he briefly went half-mad with terror, like an eel.

The window shattered on impact with the head of the terrible beast. Glass sprayed the room.

Chris screamed. Samantha screamed.

But louder than both their screams put together was the monster's awful hissing as it tried to wriggle in through the hole it had just made. Its eyes were the size of baseballs, bulging yellow but for the presence of black diamond-shaped pupils, and set deep in a wide, gray, domed shape head around which a full-grown man maybe, just maybe, could have wrapped his arms.

But screaming wouldn't protect the two teenagers from this levitating horror, whatever it was. The instinct for flight kicked in with both of them, and Chris snatched Samantha's hand or maybe she snatched his; regardless, together they raced out of the office and into the hallway.

They didn't make it far though; instead Chris collided with M. Coopersmith as he came from the lobby. The boy was thrown back; the older gentleman did not budge.

"Ah, there you are," M. Coopersmith said. "I heard the commotion. It looks like they've got us surrounded."

They? Chris thought, but didn't have the breath or strength, frankly, to ask.

"It's..." Samantha began, but words escaped her.

M. Coopersmith nodded. "Hideous, isn't it?" There was a second crash from his office. "It'll be all the way through in a moment. Not to worry, though. I've got an escape route. Follow me, please."

He led them up the hall, to the door of what appeared to be a utility closet. He yanked open that door, reached inside and began tossing things out: a broom, a bucket, a mop...

A third crash, more hissing.

"Mr. Coopersmith, hurry!" Samantha cried.

"I'm hurrying, I'm hurrying," M. Coopersmith replied, still clearing out space in the closet.

"What, are we gonna hide in the closet?" Chris demanded.

"Don't be silly, Christopher," M. Coopersmith said. "We're going to escape through it." He stepped back, holding the closet door wide, and motioned for Chris and Samantha to enter. "You two go ahead."

"In there?" Samantha blurted out.

M. Coopersmith grimaced. "I'm sorry to have to do this," he said, "but there's just no time to explain."

He grabbed the girl's arm and slung her into the closet. She cried out, but underneath that cry was a squealing, sliding sound; in seconds, both noises had faded to nothing.

"Now it's your turn," M. Coopersmith said, and before Chris could react he too had been snatched up and tossed into the blackness of the closet...

...whereupon he found himself hurtling down a long metal chute about six feet in diameter, head-first with limbs flailing, moving too fast to correct or halt his descent, and howling the entire way.

M. Coopersmith, back at the top of the chute, took a deep breath as he prepared to follow the two young people he had so unceremoniously flung toward safety. But he delayed just long enough to meet his adversary. There was something he wanted to say to it. Something he wanted it to know.

The beast floated out of his office, undulating through the air just as the aquatic eel undulates through water, followed by a second beast that had come in through the same broken window. They hissed at the sight of him. But M. Coopersmith met their hissing with a grin.

"Hah! You old monsters!" he taunted. "You're too late!"

Then, whooping, M. Coopersmith dove into the chute.

4

Chris had only just picked himself off the ground and moved aside when M. Coopersmith tumbled onto the spot where the boy had landed. Without a word to Chris, now standing a few yards away, or to Samantha, huddled in a far corner with her knees drawn up to her chin, M. Coopersmith sprang to his feet and pulled a short metal lever next to the hole in the earth through which all three of them had just arrived. A steel door slammed down over the hole.

They were in a small room about eight by twelve feet in size. The walls, ceiling, and floor were composed of cold, moist, black dirt. There were no beams of support anywhere in sight, but neither Chris nor Samantha had noticed.

"There," said M. Coopersmith, slapping his hands together and admiring the now-closed entranceway. "That ought to hold them for awhile."

He faced the two scared teenagers.

"Are you all right, children? Forgive me for being a bit rough with you just a moment ago. I only wanted us to move expeditiously. Discussing the matter would have slowed things down."

"Snakes," Samantha whimpered from her corner, "giant flying snakes..."

Chris, rubbing the back of his neck as he always did when under great stress, couldn't muster the ability to say anything yet. But M. Coopersmith seemed happy to fill the void.

"They remind me more of eels," their host said. "But, yes, something like that."

"What is this?" Chris finally managed. His voice was low and hoarse. "What's happening?"

"Well," M. Coopersmith began, obviously trying to choose his words with care, "you might say a problem has arisen."

"A problem," Chris repeated numbly, "has arisen."

Samantha got up, came over beside Chris. "What kind of a problem?"

"A manageable problem," M. Coopersmith answered, "easily handled, as long as we keep our heads."

They heard a thud at the metal door.

"That's them, isn't it?" Samantha whispered. "Those things..."

"I'm afraid so. They know where to find us now, which means they've moved from search mode to pursuit. But not to worry, children: I have things completely under control." M. Coopersmith walked to the opposite wall and began scraping dirt with his hands. Another door soon appeared, about the size of a manhole cover.

"I anticipated this day," M. Coopersmith said as he worked, "even if I wasn't sure it would ever come. As much time has passed, I was actually starting to think it wouldn't. But now it has. So I'm glad I was ready."

The last clumps of dirt had been removed. M. Coopersmith wrenched the door open and motioned for Chris and Samantha to climb through it. "Don't worry. You won't have to do this many more times."

The teenagers hesitated at first, but a second thud against the chute door spurred them on. Saying no more, they dove through.

On the other side, the two found a long tunnel. They knew it was long because as far as they could see—up until the tunnel started to bend—sat small, sporadically placed lights glowing softly blue in the darkness. The bulbs were recessed within the walls, which, like the room they had just exited, were composed of damp dark earth.

"Caves," Chris mumbled as M. Coopersmith clambered through the aperture to join them.

"That's right," M. Coopersmith said, turning to close the door. After pounding it shut, he faced Chris and Samantha again, said, "I'll bet you two didn't know there were caves on the Georgia coast."

"No," Samantha said.

"Well, there aren't! I made these caves myself," M. Coopersmith told them proudly. "The high water table was a problem, but with the right materials and a little engineering know-how, I've been able to keep it at bay. What do you think?"

Chris ignored the question, instead offered a question of his own: "Could you please tell us what's going on and what those things are?"

"Most certainly," M. Coopersmith answered. "I'll explain while we walk." He took the lead as they started down the passageway. Chris and Samantha gave each other desperate looks, and then started after him.

"We're being chased by a pair of Sky Eels," M. Coopersmith said. "That's roughly the English language translation of their name, which was given to them by another species called the Fere'n."

"What—?" cried Samantha, in despair.

"A truly marvelous species, the Fere'n." Adopting a wistful tone, M. Coopersmith continued, "It's always been regrettable to me that homo sapiens never had a chance to interact with them. Such gentle creatures, very artistic and creative, renowned for their great comedies. They looked a lot like that little bug we have here on Earth—what's it called again?" He snapped his fingers. "Oh, yes! The roly-poly! Only a mature one was about the size of a school bus. They also stood upright on their hind legs. And they had the most novel way of communicating too: they would drum their little feet up and down their bellies. That was how they formed words, you see..."

"Mr. Coopersmith," Chris said, finding he was short of breath as he tried to keep up.

"Yes, Christopher?"

"We just got chased by two flying monsters that were trying to eat us. I really think—"

"They weren't trying to eat you," M. Coopersmith corrected him gently. "They were just trying to electrocute you. When they bite down, they transmit an electrical charge through their fangs. That's how they kill."

"Oh, nice," Samantha said, running her hands through her hair.

"Okay, but they're still trying to kill us, right?" said Chris, uninterested in the distinction.

"Of course they are," M. Coopersmith replied. "But they're not going to succeed."

"How do you know that?"

"Because I'll be protecting you," M. Coopersmith said as they rounded a corner. "Protecting people and things is what I do. And I'm very, very good at it, if I do say so myself."

Back down the passageway, from whence they had come, a series of loud thuds were audible.

"Can those eel-things get through that door?" demanded Samantha.

"Eventually."

"Then shouldn't we be running?"

"I don't know about running. A brisk rate of speed should probably be enough. All the materials I used in these caves are alloys designed especially to withstand attacks from Sky Eels."

"But where do they come from?" Chris demanded. "I mean, what are they?"

"They're alien to this world," M. Coopersmith said, reaching out to pat him on the shoulder, "just like me!"

"What...?"

"Let's get to the next door first. Then we can slow down. I'd like to have a couple of barriers between us before we take a breather."

A second door came into view, and once again the trio climbed through it: Chris and Samantha first, followed by M. Coopersmith.

"You said something about aliens," Samantha reminded M. Coopersmith once he had shut the door and they were walking again, albeit at a much more comfortable pace.

"Yes," M. Coopersmith said. "Neither I nor the Sky Eels hail from this world."

"I don't believe you," Chris said.

"Did you believe in flying eels ten minutes ago?" M. Coopersmith asked him.

Good point, Chris thought, and was silent.

M. Coopersmith went on, "Now, in fairness, the Sky Eels aren't really all that terrible in their natural state. I'd liken them to, say, the great white sharks of this planet's oceans. Enormous potential danger to the unprotected, but not driven by any sort of malignant intelligence. Unfortunately, I can't say the same about the pair that's after us. If you were to perform a dissection on one of them, you'd find a number of computer implants around the brain. These Sky Eels have been modified by artificial means to greatly enhance their intelligence and cunning. But worse than that, they've been programmed with a mission."

"What mission?" Samantha asked him. "To kill us?"

"Not to kill us, necessarily," M. Coopersmith replied, "although they'll gladly do so. No, their mission is to destroy the Remnant...just as my mission is to protect it."

"What's the Remnant?"

"I'll show it to you," M. Coopersmith promised her. "It's easier to comprehend if you see it for yourself."

5

The two Sky Eels pressed their snouts against the chute-door. Currents of electricity rippled through their long, sleek bodies. The alien alloy that M. Coopersmith had used to construct the door was strong, but very few minerals could withstand an assault of this kind from the Sky Eels for long. And none of said minerals were present in large enough quantities to slow them down forever. Accordingly, the metal began to glow—and then to wither...

***

"Let's take a rest," M. Coopersmith suggested.

"Can we afford to do that?" Samantha asked. "With those things after us?"

"They'll be moving much slower now that they're in the caves," M. Coopersmith assured her. "We have time."

He leaned up against the dirt wall, arms folded across his chest. Samantha and Chris plopped down on the ground. Both were exhausted.

Then Chris looked up and asked of M. Coopersmith, "How do we kill them?"

"Oh, don't worry. I've got a nice trap waiting for them."

"How far are we from that?"

"Not far at all. But our first priority is getting the Remnant. After that, we'll take care of the Sky Eels."

Chris gazed down at his knees. Samantha rested her head in her hands. Neither spoke.

"Boy," M. Coopersmith said after a moment's silence, "you two seem awfully glum. What's the matter?"

"What's the matter?" Chris looked up again, and there was hostility in his gaze. "What's the matter is that this is really scary, Mr. Coopersmith. It's really scary and it's really bizarre. We've got two gigantic flying snakes after us..."

"I still say they're more like eels," M. Coopersmith interjected, "but reasonable people can disagree."

"Yeah, whatever. Two flying eels and we've got a guy who says he's an alien responsible for getting us away from them. I mean—put yourself in our shoes, why don't you?"

M. Coopersmith smiled, as if he were amused by the boy's outburst. "You're right, Christopher. You're absolutely right. I'm the one who has actual knowledge of what's transpiring here. You and Samantha just came to pick up a check for the Yearbook Committee. I owe you far more explanation than I've given you so far, don't I?"

"Just get us out of here alive," Samantha said to him. "That'll be enough."

"No, it won't," M. Coopersmith said. "I can do better than that. I want you two to know what's at stake. So let me tell you. Right now, the three of us hold the future of an entire civilization in our hands. And that future is housed here, in these caves."

"I thought you said something called the Remnant was kept here," said Chris.

"Oh, but it is. The Remnant is that future. It's our future and our past."

"I don't understand."

"Me, neither," said Samantha.

"I'll explain," replied M. Coopersmith. "An epoch ago, my species along with many others went to war against a great and terrible Enemy; an Enemy who had held within its hand, or something like its hand anyway, the power to destroy not only entire planets, but entire solar systems. Even the fabric of Time itself was vulnerable to this Enemy. Together we defeated that Enemy. But the price of victory was high. A number of planets were destroyed during the battle.

"Mine was one of them.

"And with it not only was a majority of my own race lost, but many other beings native to our world perished as well. Some were rendered completely extinct—among them the Fere'n I told you about earlier.

"We tried to evacuate as many as we could, but it was hopeless. There were not enough ships in the galaxy to rescue all our planet's inhabitants. A fortunate few of us were chosen to be saved, but we would carry two great burdens: first, the guilt of survival, which is by far the heaviest; and secondly, the directive to rebuild our civilization on a new planet. I frankly would have preferred to die.

"Instead, though, I lived. Now, with regard to second burden, how can we rebuild a civilization if the next generation doesn't know what that civilization was like? This, my young friends, is the task of the Remnant. It's the essence not only of our species, but of all the creatures that lived on that doomed world with us. Everything is there to re-construct what was destroyed by the Enemy; all, that is, but the lives lost. Those, of course, are gone forever.

"The Sky Eels now following us are servants of the Enemy. The Enemy itself is long dead, as are all the machines and monsters it brought into its service. All but two, that is, which went unaccounted for in our last, great conflict. We thought perhaps they too had been dispatched, but it seems we were mistaken. And the Sky Eels continue to operate under the same guidance as before, even if it's for nothing. They were charged with destroying us and they will work to fulfill that charge until either they're dead or we are. There's no other way it can end. And destroying the Remnant would be the equivalent of destroying us; ergo, they've come here to make that happen.

"Questions?"

M. Coopersmith glanced at Samantha, and then at Chris; he waited for them to speak.

"Can you prove to us you're an alien?" Chris asked him.

"I could," M. Coopersmith answered, "but I'm not going to."

"Why not?"

"For starters, I won't be able to communicate with you verbally if I transform. Our kind doesn't have vocal cords and such the way that human beings do. And, besides, you may find my true appearance somewhat...unsettling."

Chris shook his head, but said no more.

"Anyway," M. Coopersmith went on, "when you see the Remnant, I think your doubts about the truth of my story will be satisfied. I hope so, anyway."

Samantha spoke this time. "So what about when you find the Remnant? Are you going to move it to another place?"

"Yes, but for the final time," asserted M. Coopersmith. "You see, when the Remnant was first created, we agreed it would be better to hide it on a planet far away, with a single protector—a protector who would be perfectly blended into that planet's native population, so as to avoid attracting the attention of the Enemy or his minions. As it turned out, that far-away planet was the Earth, and that protector was me. We're quite fortunate that we finally won our war with the Enemy. We're less fortunate in that it takes time for the wandering star ships that have become our temporary home to reach the Earth...which means I've been waiting here, in bucolic Summerville, for almost a century to be picked up.

"Not that I mind, of course. It's a wonderful place, full of wonderful people. But we've found a new planet, nearby, that's suitable for non-disruptive colonization by us. If all goes well, they'll soon be retrieving me along with the Remnant, and off we'll go to start all over again."

"So when do they get here?" Samantha asked. "Your own kind, I mean."

"Tonight," responded M. Coopersmith. "In about a half-hour, I would think."

"That's why you said you were leaving," Samantha said. "Because you were..."

"Going home," M. Coopersmith concluded for her, "just as you and Christopher will be snug in your beds not long from now. Tonight all three of us are going home."

Having listened to Samantha, Chris thought, I guess she swallowed his whole story. I just can't. Maybe I'm the weird one here, but even after everything that's happened so far, I can't make myself believe what this guy is saying.

A bang echoed from farther down the passageway.

"Oops," M. Coopersmith said. "I think we had better get moving again."

6

The passageway split, and split again. It was yet another thing that made Chris nervous. M. Coopersmith seemed to know exactly where he was going, but did he really? What if his memory of the caves he had supposedly built was now faulty and they ended up lost in here with no water or food, just the company of these Sky Eels? And then there was the overall confidence M. Coopersmith claimed to have in the three of them making it out of here safely. Was that confidence justified? Or was he merely pretending to be confident, as much for his own sake as for those of his two young companions?

Too much had happened. Too much was happening still. The boy could not process it all.

Two gigantic flying serpent-like (or eel-like, whatever) beings were in pursuit of them; creatures, claimed M. Coopersmith, from another world.

And the same M. Coopersmith had stated that he too was from another world.

Just too much.

M. Coopersmith stopped, looked up and down at the length of their present cave. "It should be about here," he said, feeling the dirt wall on their right. "Yes, right here, I think."

Once more, he began digging with his hands in the earth. It didn't take long his efforts revealed a plain metal door, glimmering in the soft blue radiance of the cave's light fixtures. The door was about two feet vertically, one foot horizontally. It looked almost like an ordinary wall safe, save for a small keypad with unfamiliar symbols affixed to the front. M. Coopersmith tapped on a few of those symbols and then turned around as the keypad began to blink. He appraised the two teenagers kindly. "Anybody know any good jokes?"

"No," Chris said.

"None?" To Samantha, now: "What about you, my dear? You've been awfully quiet lately. Do you know any good jokes?"

The girl cut her eyes at him. "I can't think of any right now."

"Well, let me know when you come up with something." M. Coopersmith scratched the back of his head. "There's one I heard some years ago, about a man who walks into a bar with a duck under his arm. I wish I could remember the whole thing....absolutely hilarious. Does that sound familiar to either of you?"

Neither of the two kids answered. Chris let out a sigh; Samantha just looked at her feet.

"It goes something like this," M. Coopersmith went on. "A man walks into the bar with a duck under his arm. The bartender says, 'Hey, where'd you get the duck?' And the man says..." M. Coopersmith frowned. "Oh, it's gone. I just can't recall."

"Can I ask you a question?" Samantha ventured.

"Of course."

"Can we just get this Remnant thing out and go?"

"Not quite yet. There's a lag between when you enter the code to unlock the safe and when it actually opens. It would cause a fatal shock if I tried to get into it any sooner. It's a nice little booby trap I created in case the wrong individual got here first. We have about eight more minutes before it's safe for us to go in."

Samantha blurted out, "You mean we've got to sit here and wait for eight minutes?"

"Don't worry. I'm keeping time in my head," M. Coopersmith replied. "It won't take long."

"It won't take long before those Sky Eels get here either," snapped Chris.

M. Coopersmith cocked his head. "Yes. That does add a bit more urgency, doesn't it?"

"We're all gonna die," Samantha moaned.

M. Coopersmith threw up his hands in exasperation. "No, we're not," he snapped. "We're going to be just fine. And really, Samantha, I wish you'd try to enjoy yourself a little more."

"Enjoy myself?" Samantha squeaked, aghast at his words.

"Yes. You're taking all this way too seriously."

"But those things are trying to kill us!"

"That's true."

"How can I not take that seriously?"

"You should take it seriously. What I said is that you're taking it too seriously. You're so wrapped up in staying alive that you've forgotten to appreciate being alive. We've made it this far, haven't we?" He rubbed his chin. "You know, there's a wonderful English-language phrase I'm trying to think of to say to you. Just a moment—it'll come to me. Ah, yes, I remember it now: 'Lighten up.'"

"Lighten...lighten up?"

"Yes, lighten up. Try to enjoy the adventure."

"There's another English language phrase I'd like to say to you," Chris told M. Coopersmith. "It's two words also."

"Really? What is it?"

Chris sighed. "Just forget it."

"I'm not sure if I understand the relevance of that one," M. Coopersmith mused. "Besides, isn't that three words?"

"Okay, here's a phrase, Mr. Coopersmith," Chris said, his patience gone. "'You're crazy.' How do you like that one? This isn't an adventure. This is a nightmare. Don't you realize we could all get killed tonight?"

"We could all survive too."

"Yeah, well, what's more likely?" Chris retorted. "It's one thing to be optimistic. It's another thing to be stupid."

Unfazed by the boy's harsh words, M. Coopersmith answered, "It's another thing still to embrace despair."

"I'm just being realistic."

"What you're doing, Christopher, is acting like a condemned man. Consider the situation rationally, why don't you? We have our lives; we have our wits; and, in a few moments, we'll even have a means to escape. Our chances of living, I think, are superb. But in the face of all this, what do you do? You shout at me about nightmares and dying. You're much too young to let your mind be filled with so much darkness. I know that darkness well. I know it far better than you do and far better, I hope, than you ever will."

"I don't know what you mean," Chris shot back. "You're the most psycho-cheerful person I've ever met."

"Maybe," allowed M. Coopersmith. "But I wasn't always, as you put it, 'psycho-cheerful'. In fact, when I first came to this planet a century ago, I was very sad. I had seen so much war, so much bloodshed, that I could hardly bear my own existence anymore. Every time I came into contact with another living creature, I was reminded of how fragile life was. And for that reason, I had no inclination to associate with any human being. All I wanted to do was sit in solitude and wait for the day when I would be able to return the Remnant to my own kind." As he spoke, his voice softened, and his militant cheerfulness began to recede. "I was cold, you understand, bitterly cold. And I would blame my coldness on the war, but in fact the coldness came from inside of me. It was my own doing, and it's something I've observed in the human animal as well. It's perfectly understandable. Becoming cold is a means of survival in the face of trauma. But it's a terrible means. By your own choice, you grow numb to the sight of death and destruction. It becomes a simple fact to you, rather than some monstrous aberration. It becomes a thing as definite and fixed as the ground beneath your feet. And you hate it. You long to feel, but you can't—because you deny yourself feeling. You have to deny it, just to preserve what little of yourself remains. And so, when I first arrived here, I sat in isolation, watching from a distance as the human race mutilated and tormented itself. It was all so familiar. It made me wish we had chosen some other world, but of course that decision was never mine. And yet, over time, something happened. This little town called Summerville, so tiny when I arrived, began to spread out all around me. And, in spite of myself, I became curious about it. So, in the late afternoons generally, I began to take occasional walks around this new town: long, observant walks. And on these walks, I often saw the same faces over and over again, and these faces never failed to greet me kindly. Before long, I found myself trying to match their kindness. I came to enjoy seeing people, and I took great pleasure in the belief that at least some of these people enjoyed seeing me.

"I remember one night, back in September of 1908, when a little puppet show came to town with the traveling carnival. And, of course, I had no knowledge of what the show was all about, but I'll never forgot the way the children of the town loved it; how they laughed at all the antics onstage. I was struck by the way their little faces just glowed when they laughed. And, incredibly, I began to laugh with them. It was something I didn't even know was possible for one of my kind. Perhaps it isn't possible at all, and it was just through magic that I came by the gift. I don't know. All I know is that, one night in 1908, I learned how to laugh—and suddenly I began to heal.

"So now, Christopher and Samantha, I laugh all the time. I laugh every chance I get. I smile every chance I get. I fight back against the darkness and the despair. And I encourage the both of you to do the same. You may find it does more to keep you alive than anything else."

Before he could stop himself, Chris retorted, "Did being happy keep those Fere'n things alive?"

He was sorry the moment the question escaped his lips, but so filled with anger at M. Coopersmith—and generally the entire situation in which he found himself—that he couldn't contain it.

M. Coopersmith frowned in response, but only briefly; then his face relaxed again, became serene. He answered, "No, it didn't. But their works live on. And through those works, Christopher, the Fere'n survive. To this day—on planets all across my native galaxy—their plays are still being performed."

"I don't care about any of this," Chris said, turning away from him. "I'd rather be alive than just have my plays performed or whatever."

"They had a wonderful convention, you know," M. Coopersmith went on, ignoring Chris' statement. "Every story they told had to have a happy ending. No matter what happened elsewhere in the play, at its conclusion those who did wrong saw the error of their ways and asked forgiveness; and the ones who had been wronged granted it."

"I said I don't care!" Chris shouted, still not facing him.

"Quarreling lovers reconciled. Friendships were repaired. Familial bonds were reaffirmed. The dead and the slain came back to life. The typical conclusion of a Fere'n play involved all of the characters sitting down for a banquet."

"Don't you ever shut up?" Chris raged.

But M. Coopersmith was undaunted. "They had a philosophy that real life was terrible enough, you see, so any work of fiction should end on a high and hopeful note. Now you can criticize the Fere'n for their lack of realism, and yet their works endure, because people are drawn to stories of hope. That's how they survive. And this is our story, Christopher and Samantha. Hope is how we're going to survive."

A faint pinging noise emanated from the safe, like a microwave oven announcing that it had finished heating the Stouffer's macaroni and cheese. Christopher and Samantha watched as M. Coopersmith opened the door to the safe.

"Here we are," M. Coopersmith said, reaching inside.

7

With great care, M. Coopersmith extended his arms deep into the safe. Then, gingerly, he extracted something. An item that looked like—

—a sack.

A plain, brown, cloth sack about the size of the one that held potatoes in the grocery store. It was tied up with a simple piece of twine on top, and bulging at the bottom.

"Wonderful," M. Coopersmith burbled over the little bag, clutching it to his chest like a newborn baby. Then he undid the twine and held out the bag to Chris and Samantha with the top wide open. "Would you two sour pusses like to have a look inside?"

Ignoring the provocation, Chris and Samantha peeked over the rim of the bag.

Inside: a lump of fine, silver, twinkling sand.

For a full ten seconds, there was absolute silence in the cave.

Then Chris sputtered, "This is the Remnant? This is what the Sky Eels are chasing after?"

"It most certainly is," M. Coopersmith answered proudly.

"But...it's a sack of dirt!"

"It's very special dirt."

Chris placed his hands on either side of his head in disgust. "It's a sack of dirt! We're risking our lives for a sack of dirt!"

M. Coopersmith closed the bag. "Christopher, you need to calm down."

"But this is crazy. It's crazy! We're being chased by two giant flying snakes—"

"I really think they're more like eels."

"Who cares? All I know is that we've got two alien monsters chasing us, and all for a sack of dirt. Oh, man—this has got to be the worst extracurricular activity I've ever had."

"Christopher," M. Coopersmith began, opening the bag again and extending it to him.

"What?" the boy answered irritably.

"Put your hand in the sack."

"Why?"

"Because I think you might gain some appreciation of what my work has been about."

"You've already told me what your job was."

"I've told you in words," M. Coopersmith answered. "But if you were to place your hand in this sack, I think you'd get a much better idea—just as I indicated before, if you recall. So put your hand inside and touch the dust with your fingertips."

"But that's alien dust. How do I know it won't poison me or something?"

"I know human physiology very well. I've been pretending to be human for years, don't forget. Believe me, if I had any safety concerns over exposing you to the Remnant, I would never let you do it. You'll be fine."

Chris hesitated. "I don't think I want to."

"Why not?" M. Coopersmith pressed him. "As you said, it's just a sack of dirt."

"Don't do it if you don't want to, Chris," Samantha said, touching the boy's back. Normally Chris would have been thrilled to have physical contact of any kind with Samantha Gibbons, but he was so emotional right now it barely registered.

"What's going to happen to me if I do this?" he demanded.

"You'll see what was lost," answered M. Coopersmith.

Ten seconds, now, of pure silence.

"I'm not afraid," Chris said finally, although his voice was quavering. "I'm not afraid of you, or what's in this bag, or anything else. Okay?"

"I believe you, Christopher," said M. Coopersmith. "Put your hand in."

Taking a deep breath, Chris inserted his hand in the sack, felt the dust with his fingertips.

"I don't feel any—" he began.

Those were the last words he got out for the next minute, so overwhelmed was he by the cascade of images suddenly flowing through his mind.

It began with a vision of space: stars swirling into clusters, and clusters sucked up into galaxies, and the galaxies rushing past him.

I'm flying.

And as he soared through space he felt hollow inside. The hollowness began in his stomach, then filled his torso, bolted through his arms and legs, and took his head, fingers, and toes last. He was no more, now, than an eddy in the current of the star wind.

A planet spun into view: a blue world, like the one from which he came, but a good deal bluer than the Earth, with only a few small brown continents peeking out beneath the sheets of tumbling white cloud.

Descending now, faster and faster...

He dropped below the water and saw massive clear-bodied animals, something like jellyfish but larger, more defined, with tremendous multi-colored fins to propel themselves through the shimmering depths. They were like massive, transparent birds, only birds that swam languidly beneath the sea.

Above the water again, and flying over it towards land up head: a stretch of terrain upon flatter areas of which grew long swathes of massive gold trees with leaves painted violet and orange and white. Among these fine trees walked tall, eight-legged creatures with vaguely horse-like heads, and yet they could not have been mere animals, Chris thought, for they wore purple robes and sashes studded with jewels, and carried themselves with great dignity as they promenaded through the woods.

Flying on, with the sun setting behind him, Chris came to a broad flat lake, and at the center of the lake soaked three great, long-necked beasts, similar to giraffes, only instead of being land animals they appeared entirely aquatic, with long smooth white bodies and powerful flippers, and atop the skinny necks were vast heads with soulful bluish-pink eyes, and they raised those heads in unison and together sang in a baleful chorus to the three moons now becoming visible above the calm waters.

It was dark now; stars glittered in the dark blue celestial firmament. Beneath the stars was a fire, and around that fire sat a ring of eleven huge insect-like beings, shell-backed but sitting upright so that their gray bellies were fully exposed—

—Fere'n—

—and they were drumming those bellies excitedly, little disc-shaped feet pounding up and down their abdomens. And Chris realized they were having a conversation of some kind, and somehow he understood all the things they were saying, and it was absolutely hilarious, their conversation, ribald and witty but never mean, and he found himself laughing so hard at the stories they told that he thought his sides would burst.

But then it was time to move on: to a great city with high gleaming towers and terraced gardens, a place of learning and debate, filled with libraries and classrooms and, looking more closely, blue-skinned, dome-headed beings well over eight feet in height who processed slowly and seriously through the boulevards of the city. He wanted to study these beings more, but suddenly, in a blast of white light, all of it disintegrated.

All of it: the city, the lake, the forest, the ocean, the many strange and marvelous creatures...gone in a second.

His final vision was of an asteroid belt spreading out along an ancient orbit. Where once there had been life, now there were only rocks scattered across a silent void.

Christopher Taylor did something, then, that he would never have expected himself to do in such a situation. He did something that would have shamed him under other circumstances, whether others witnessed it or not.

He cried.

There were only a few tears, but they would not be held back. What he had seen was so beautiful, and so tragic, that he knew any effort to restrain, let alone hide them, would be wasted.

M. Coopersmith pulled the bag away, so that Chris' hand fell from it, dropped to his side. With his connection to the Remnant severed, he once again found himself in the same dark cave, standing before M. Coopersmith and Samantha, his shoulders sunk, his eyes wet.

"It's all gone?" he whispered to M. Coopersmith as he wiped the tears from his face, gradually got a hold of himself.

"Yes—all gone, except for this little bit of dust."

"Why? How could it happen?"

"I don't know," said M. Coopersmith. "I've wrestled with that question for untold years. What can I say? The universe is a harsh place. It bestows life and retrieves it with impunity."

Samantha once again put her hand on Chris' back, only this time she rubbed it instead. "Are you all right?"

"No," the boy said.

M. Coopersmith had a guilty look on his face. "That was cruel of me, wasn't it? I shouldn't have talked you into doing that. I apologize."

"No—thank you, but no," Chris said. "You don't have to do that, Mr. Coopersmith. I'm not embarrassed. I don't care."

"I still ought not to have shown you all that."

"Yes, you should have. I'm glad you did. Samantha, do you want to see?"

The girl bit her lip. "I don't know."

"I think you should see it," Chris advised her.

"I'm scared, though."

"Don't be. It's not scary. It's wonderful. It's sad, but it's wonderful too."

"You promise?"

"I promise." He looked at M. Coopersmith. "Go ahead and let her see. Please."

M. Coopersmith re-opened the bag, held it out to Samantha; before reaching inside, she said to Chris, "Hold my other hand."

"Sure," Chris said, "absolutely."

She inserted her hand and saw all that he had seen.

She, too, cried when it was over.

And she, too, was grateful for the sight.

8

The Sky Eels had come much farther than M. Coopersmith would have expected in so short a time. They could sense the energies of the Remnant, detect its collected power, knowledge, history, and now, finally, its use. They had traveled across space packed inside a tiny metal capsule, ever tracking the distinctive energy signature of the Remnant, and understood, as much as their primitive brains would allow, that whichever planet they seized upon as the Remnant's home would have to be correct; for their transport capsule would be rendered useless for further travel once they emerged from it. But now they knew beyond all doubt that they had been correct: the Remnant was here, waiting for them to destroy it...and, along with it, all who stood in their way.

***

M. Coopersmith re-tied the little brown bag and hooked it to one of his belt loops. "We have to go now," he said.

And off they went.

"Mr. Coopersmith," Chris began after a few moments spent hurrying down the passageway, "I want to ask you something."

"Of course, my boy!"

"Out of all those creatures we saw, which one are you?"

"Remember the big tall blue ones?"

"That's what you really look like?"

"Similar, anyway," said M. Coopersmith.

Within minutes they had arrived at what would be their next to last portal. M. Coopersmith once again yanked it open for Chris and Samantha to pass through first, only this time he remained on the other side. "You two get on over and wait for me," he instructed them. "We're almost at the surface again."

Chris glanced down and realized the ground had an upward slope, becoming steeper as the cave went on.

Samantha said to M. Coopersmith, "What about you, though?"

"I've got my trap to set." He eyed her conspiratorially. "Here's the beauty of it. These Sky Eels are some of the hardiest, most difficult to kill creatures known. But it can be done. Those little blue lights we've used to navigate are far more than just sources of illumination. In fact, that was never really their purpose. I built them to transmit energy, lots of it! There's enough in their power cells, I think, to kill those two Sky Eels dead in their tracks. And here's something that's almost as good. The Enemy designed the implants in their heads to self-destruct when the life functions of a Sky Eel cease. They disintegrate completely upon death. That was done to keep us from studying the technology the Enemy used to control them. I used to think it was a problem, but now I'm grateful for that feature. It means that when these two Sky Eels die, there will be no trace left of our Enemy at all. Its last foul vestiges will be wiped clean from the universe. Isn't that nice?"

"That sounds great," Chris said quickly. "I guess you should start working on it right now, huh?"

"Good idea," M. Coopersmith said, chuckling when he realized Chris was trying to get him to hurry up and do what he promised, instead of just talking about it.

M. Coopersmith disappeared back down the cave.

When Chris could no longer see him, he turned to Samantha. She half-smiled at him in the gloom, but it was a nervous, fleeting smile, almost a tic.

"Hey," he said.

"Hey," she said back.

"Some night, huh?"

He took a cautious step forward.

"Yeah," Samantha said, "definitely some night."

"I really think we're going to be okay, though. I didn't at first...but now I do."

She nodded. "I think so too."

A long pause followed; then Chris said, "I'm sorry about all of this."

"Why are you sorry? It's not your fault."

"Actually, it is. If I had just remembered my phone, none of this would have ever happened. To us, anyway."

"Yeah, you're right," Samantha agreed. "It really is your fault."

"Thanks."

"You know what, though? I'm glad you forgot it, Chris. I'm glad we had to come back...because if we hadn't, you're right. None of this would have happened. I wouldn't have had the scariest, most amazing night of my life."

"Are you serious?"

"I'm serious. I've learned so many things tonight, all in just the last hour. I've learned about aliens and other planets and other ways of being and feeling. And I've learned about me. And you."

"What have you learned about me?"

"That you're brave. Strong. All that good stuff."

Chris felt himself blush and hoped she could not see it in the darkness of the cave. "That's nice of you to say."

"It's the truth."

Chris thought, I guess I might as well lay it all out.

"Do you know why I joined the Yearbook Committee?" he asked her quietly.

"No. Why?"

"Maybe I shouldn't tell you."

"You don't have to tell me anything you don't want to."

"No, I want to. It's just that...if we don't survive this, I don't want to die with any secrets, you know?" He paused. "I joined the Yearbook Committee so I could meet you. There. I said it."

"To meet me?"

"Yeah. I really liked you and I wanted to find a way to spend time with you. And this was it."

"But we didn't even meet until you joined."

"Well, you hadn't met me. But I had sort of met you. More like seen you around, actually. But that was all it took, I guess. I just wanted to get to know you better. Stupid, right?"

"No."

"Look, I know you've got a boyfriend and it probably wouldn't work anyway, so don't worry. If we live..."

"Stop saying that. We're going to live."

"Yeah, well, either way, I won't bother you afterwards. I'll leave you alone."

"Chris," Samantha began, "if you ignore me after all this, I'm going to be really mad at you."

"You are?"

"Yep. Really, really mad. Because we're gonna be friends, Chris, you and me. You're right that I've got a boyfriend, but no matter what else happens, you're going to be a part of my life from now on. Do you hear me?"

"Yeah." He averted his eyes.

"Look at me, Chris. Do you hear me?"

He met her gaze and smiled. "I hear you."

"Good. Don't forget it."

"All right!" M. Coopersmith hooted as he climbed through the aperture. He had arrived so softly that his return gave the two teenagers quite a start. "The trap is set."

Chris and Samantha came forward.

"And this'll do it, you think?" Chris asked. "This'll kill them?"

"Oh, yes," M. Coopersmith promised. "They'll be dead as doornails. And the Remnant will be safe, and I'll be on my way to my new home, and the two of you will be asleep in your beds by midnight. Things will be absolutely fine."

"Good," Chris said. "So we can go now?"

A humming noise filled the air. Then the dark earth surrounding them began to vibrate.

"Yes," M. Coopersmith said to Chris and Samantha. "I think that would be a very good idea."

***

The Sky Eels halted. Up and down the length of the passageway the blue lights were pulsing, brighter each time, almost flashing. The creatures felt heat on their skin, first only uncomfortable, but growing steadily more painful...

***

The merciless incline of the cave floor made the trio's walk difficult. M. Coopersmith showed no sign of flagging, but Chris and Samantha, frightened though they were, kept falling back. Each time it happened, though, M. Coopersmith would reach out and gently pull forward whichever one they were leaving behind, so that both kids stayed even with him.

The shaking of the ground was getting worse. Clumps of dirt began to fall around them.

"What's happening?" Samantha asked M. Coopersmith.

"I've deactivated the systems that kept the caves intact. Within a few minutes they should collapse entirely on themselves. There's no need for them anymore, now that I've got the Remnant and we're on our way out. And it wouldn't do at all, you know, for people to be poking around in here after I leave."

"No, I guess not," Chris said, trying to catch his breath.

"Funny. It took me a century to dig these caves," remarked M. Coopersmith as they neared the end of the passage, "but only a few minutes to destroy them. Good riddance, though." He chortled. "Who ever heard of caves in coastal Georgia, anyway?"

***

The two Sky Eels were in agony. Both were attempting to plunge ahead, but the pain from the invisible energy field now saturating the caves made it impossible for them to navigate. One of the Sky Eels became blind, ran into the collapsing cave wall. It tried to extricate itself, but failed; black earth rained down on its writhing, shimmering body. Its partner was similarly disoriented, though faring better physically.

***

The passageway terminated at a narrow ladder, going directly up. M. Coopersmith led Chris and Samantha to the base of it, and Chris noted that the ladder was about ten feet high, ending at an aluminum hatch above them.

"Go ahead, Christopher," M. Coopersmith ordered. "Use that strong back of yours to get the thing lifted. Samantha, you follow once he's got the hatch open. I'll keep watch just in case."

Suddenly there was a screech from farther back in the tunnel, followed by a loud blast. Chris, about to clamber up, froze.

"Hear that? One of the Sky Eels just blew up. That's one down," said M. Coopersmith, grinning. "The other should follow any minute."

Chris nodded, began to climb.

"Any minute now," M. Coopersmith said again, softly.

But there was only silence.

Reaching the top of the ladder, Chris strained to push the hatch open. It took some doing, but he got it. He shoved the hatch off and thrilled in the ambience of the moon and the bracing chill of the autumn air.

"Come on, Samantha," he called down to her, and then hauled himself onto the surface.

"Where are we?" Samantha asked as she came up the ladder.

But the bright moon made it easy to see.

"We're at the port," Chris told her, reaching down to give her a hand. She took his assistance gratefully.

After Chris had helped Samantha get above ground again, the pair took stock of where M. Coopersmith's tunnel had brought them. It was the industrial park adjacent to the Port of Summerville, about one hundred acres that had been cleared for distribution facilities, manufacturing plants, and whatever other business ventures the city fathers could bring. About five hundred yards away, visible between piles of industrial components and debris, were the dark blue waters of the Summerville River, a grand body shimmering under the moon's gentle gaze on its way to join with the Atlantic. Behind Chris and Samantha lay railroad tracks, a few newly-built warehouses, and vacant, grassy land. M. Coopersmith's hatch had been secreted away in a vast bed of weeds.

"We must have come two miles underground," Samantha marveled, scanning the area. "At least two miles."

M. Coopersmith finally joined them topside. "Ah!" He took a deep breath. "Well, looks like we made it."

"The other Sky Eel," Chris said. "Is it dead too?"

"It will be soon, I'm sure." M. Coopersmith stared up at the night sky. That sky was pregnant with starlight, no clouds in sight. "Lovely," he said.

Chris glanced down at the hole from which they had just emerged and saw that it was rapidly closing in on itself, dirt filling the empty space. They had barely made it out in time.

"So it's over," he said to M. Coopersmith. "Now we just wait for your friends to get here, right?"

"That's right," M. Coopersmith said. "It shouldn't be but a few minutes more. You two can even go home now if you'd like, although I do think you'd both enjoy seeing our spacecraft when it arrives."

"So what you're saying," Samantha responded, "is that you'd like for us to stay with you until they get here."

"Very much so," said M. Coopersmith.

She looked at Chris. "Want to?"

Chris nodded. "Yeah, I would. I've never seen a UFO before."

"Oh, believe me, you'll like ours," M. Coopersmith told him. "It's pretty snazzy."

"Snazzy, huh?"

M. Coopersmith blinked. "People don't say that anymore?"

"I don't hear it much."

"Ah. Well, look, since we have a few moments, I thought there was something we could do to pass the time. That is, if you're both open to the idea."

Samantha began, "What exactly do you...?"

"I had told you that, in our normal form, my species doesn't communicate the way that yours does, what with using vocal cords to shape air into words and so forth. But we do have a way of communicating with one another, and, if it all possible, I'd like to try it with the two of you. I've met a lot of people in Summerville over the last hundred years or so, but I've never made any real friends. I couldn't afford to, you see, because there was too great a risk of my identity being exposed. Now, though, it doesn't matter. You two know all the essential things about me, but here at the end, I thought maybe we could take a moment to get better acquainted."

"What does this involve?" Samantha asked him.

"Yeah," Chris said, "I mean, I have no idea what do you want us to do."

"When two of my kind communicate with one another, Chris, we don't do talk to each other. Instead, to put it simply, we become each other." He tapped his right temple. "We join our minds together, and, for a brief moment, we allow ourselves to become a single being. I would like to join with the two of you, and to have you two also join with each other."

"But I may not want you guys to see inside my head," Samantha replied, voice cautious. "No offense."

"I completely agree," said Chris.

"You needn't be concerned about that," replied M. Coopersmith. "The joining isn't complete. You join with your partner or partners only as much as you allow. It works exactly the same way as carrying on a verbal conversation. You reveal what you choose to reveal and nothing more."

Chris considered for a moment. Then he said, "All right. I'll do it."

"You'll keep everything confidential, right?" Samantha said to Chris.

"Sure I will. What are you looking just at me for, though?"

"Because Mr. Coopersmith is going to another planet. I don't have to worry about him telling all my secrets in school."

"You'll still have all your secrets after this, Samantha," said M. Coopersmith. "Trust me."

"Okay," Samantha sighed.

"Come a little closer together," M. Coopersmith urged them, "so I can easily reach both of you."

Nervously, the two teenagers did as they were told.

M. Coopersmith then held out his hands. With his right hand, he cupped Chris' head; with his left, Samantha's.

"And now," he said, "just relax."

Chris closed his eyes; he didn't will himself to do so, it just happened. He closed his eyes and fell asleep, even as he continued to stand there.

The words belonged to M. Coopersmith, but Chris heard them in his own voice, in his own thoughts: "It's a long time that I've stayed here, a long time spent watching this town and its people, and I must say that at the start, as I told you before, I had very little interest in being a part of this place. But after a while all you people just wore me down. There was no need for me to buy that building. I did it for the sake of the parades. Bridgewell is a big street for parades in Summerville. The Homecoming Parades, the Memorial Day and Veterans Day Parades, and all of them I watched from the windows of my office, unless it was a year that ended in zero, on which occasion I would walk outside to watch it in person, waving a little American flag on the patriotic holidays, so that I could feel a part, in the smallest way, of the world around me, a world that was not my own, in a town that was not my own, yet a world and a town that had welcomed me, made me feel I belonged..."

And now Chris heard words that were his, but spoken in the voice of M. Coopersmith: "I had a dog named Buster and he was my best friend, even though I had other kids I claimed to be best friends with, but they weren't my real best friends and I wasn't their best friend either. Maybe we were good friends, but the thing about Buster that made him my real best friend was that, no matter what, he was always glad to see me. Whatever I wanted to do, he wanted to do. And sometimes I was mean to him, or I ignored him, or didn't treat him well, but each and every time he forgave me, and was ready to be my best friend again. And when he had to be put down, I cried really hard in front of my parents and the veterinarian because I knew I had lost my best friend forever."

Samantha's words now, but in Chris' voice: "When I was a little girl I used to go to my grandmother's house and I loved to sit down in front of her dresser and put on her costume jewelry and some makeup and then walk around the house with my jewelry and makeup and let everybody see me and my grandmother thought it was the funniest thing but I actually thought I was a beautiful, like a princess or a queen, until one day I walked into the living room on Thanksgiving, when we had all gathered at her house, and it just so happened that my older cousin, Denise, who must have been about sixteen or so, told me I looked like a prostitute and I knew what that word meant and I tried to laugh but I started to cry and I ran out of the room and into my grandmother's room and my grandmother followed me and she dried my eyes and said, 'Darling, your mascara's running,' and then she hugged me and laughed and I couldn't help it but I started to laugh too."

Samantha's voice now; again, the words of M. Coopersmith: "When at last I leave this place, I will feel a great emptiness. I stayed human for so long that, in the process, I think a part of me has become human. I never fought that, and perhaps I should have fought it but it wasn't a fight worth winning. When I go home, I will be different from the others. They would call me an alien here on Earth, but will I not be alien, in some regards, when I am back among my own? Funny, how geography and those who inhabit that geography can affect, even shape, one who is not native to it. I am ashamed to say so, but in some ways I fear returning to my own civilization."

The voice of M. Coopersmith; Samantha's words: "A lot of times I feel like all I do is perform for other people. It's been that way from the beginning: first dance lessons, and then piano lessons, and recitals, and everyone telling me how good I did but lately I've started to think, 'Why?' Why did they make do all these things? Was it for me? Was it for my own good? Okay, maybe it was good for me, I don't know, but why so many things? And when do I get a break? I mean, now it's the drama club and the journalism club and the yearbook committee, but who is all this for? Can it only be for me, or was it just because my last name was Gibbons and a Gibbons girl had to be tops at everything and I was never supposed to have a choice, I had to perform, I had to excel and be as close to perfect as I could possibly be."

And, last, Chris' words, spoken in Samantha's voice: "What is it that I'm doing wrong? I feel like ever since I went past thirteen years of age everybody has been after me. It's not like I get into trouble. It's not like I'm disrespectful or mean. But whenever I do something wrong, no matter how small, I feel like people come down on me so hard. What did I do? I tried to be funny and maybe I said something I shouldn't have; maybe I don't want to go out and rake leaves, or make my bed as soon I get up, and suddenly I'm a juvenile delinquent. I mean, what is it about me? Is it the way I look, or talk? I'm just trying to make it here, okay? I'm just trying to make it."

M. Coopersmith removed his hands from the heads of the two teenagers. Chris opened his eyes, saw Samantha open hers as well. He looked at M. Coopersmith.

"How was it?" M. Coopersmith asked them.

"Different," Chris said.

"Strange," Samantha replied. "But...not bad." She looked at Chris, smiled at him. "Not bad at all."

"Good," said M. Coopersmith. "I thought it would be helpful for all of us to get to know each other a little better, especially the two of you."

"Why us?" Samantha asked him.

M. Coopersmith shifted on his feet, put his hands behind his back. "I'm going to say something completely inappropriate," he said.

"I'm not sure if I want to hear this," Samantha said.

"Me neither," Chris seconded.

"No, it's nothing bad. It's just that I eavesdropped on your conversation earlier and I actually think the two of you would make a lovely couple, if you just got a little more familiar with each other. The heck with being friends." He tickled Chris' chin. "I mean, look at this face!"

Chris jerked his head away from M. Coopersmith's hand, but he found himself chuckling afterward at this odd and exuberant alien, so human yet so not human. He looked at Samantha and saw that she was smiling too, at both of them.

"I'll think about it," she told M. Coopersmith.

"Good. That's all I can ask."

Suddenly the ground jerked beneath their feet: a sharp, violent tremor.

"Was that the caves still falling in?" Chris asked M. Coopersmith.

"No. That would have been over by now."

"So what is it, then?"

Another tremor.

Something bad was happening. Chris could tell by the grim look on M. Coopersmith's face.

"I'm afraid I might have been a little too optimistic about my trap," said M. Coopersmith. "I didn't want to say anything before, but in the back of my mind I was concerned there might have been some deterioration in the power cells. I still thought there would be enough to kill both of them, but, apparently, I only got one. And now it's burrowing its way to the surface, which means I'll have to deal with it...directly, let's say."

Chris' mouth opened, but it was Samantha who spoke first: "So now what do we do?"

M. Coopersmith untied the bag that held the Remnant. "Take this and run to the bank of the river. Our ship will be here soon. In the meantime, I'll handle the Sky Eel."

"What if your people think we're hostile?" Chris asked him. "Like we're trying to destroy the Remnant instead of protect it?"

"They won't think that," M. Coopersmith replied. "They can detect hostility and warmth and a million other emotions in human beings. You'll be fine."

"What about you?"

"I'll be fine too," said M. Coopersmith. "Now hurry on, both of you. I'll catch up as soon as I can."

Chris and Samantha, who held the bag close to her chest, turned to run. But just as they started off, M. Coopersmith called out, "Children?"

They stopped, looked back at him.

M. Coopersmith bowed to them, a wide grin on his face. "Thank you both," he said, "for a splendid evening."

Chris and Samantha, despite their fear, found themselves grinning back at M. Coopersmith. Then, for the third time, they felt the earth move beneath them, and once more took off running; took off running through a maze of scrap metal, steel pilings, lumber, and discarded railroad ties on toward the Summerville River, with its vast waters shining darkly in the moonlight.

9

Had Chris or Samantha looked back they might have noticed that, as soon as they were off, M. Coopersmith's broad smile vanished. But that was only the beginning of the change that took place in his appearance. Turning away, he prepared to set aside the visage of M. Coopersmith, a mask he had worn for so long it felt almost—but not quite—like it was the real him. He had delayed transforming until now, but in order to do battle properly with the Sky Eel, he could no longer wait. All the while keeping his eyes trained on the patch of ground from which he expected the Sky Eel to emerge, M. Coopersmith allowed his human guise to dissipate. His legs and torso expanded, lengthened, until he stood more than eight feet in height; his skin darkened from white to pale blue; his thumb, middle, and index fingers combined to form a single digit, as did his pinkie and ring fingers. His clothing melted into armor of a slightly darker shade than his skin; an armor that was, in fact, organic to his tremendous body. His face narrowed even as his head enlarged to triple the size of a man's, in the process becoming domed rather than round; his eyes widened and blackened over, turning opaque; his mouth shrank to a tiny—and, in fact, non-functional—slit.

And now, he thought, for the best part.

From the joints of his elbows two long blades extended, curving around so that they ran parallel to his forearms and out past his hands, to end in sharp hooked tips. These blades, like the armor, were in fact a part of the alien's body. The skeletons of creatures such as M. Coopersmith were not kept wholly inside, like the mammals of Terra, nor outside, like the planet's insects, but instead were borne as a combination of the two, interlocking and blending with the hard blue flesh, sometimes exposed, sometimes not.

Like the Sky Eels, M. Coopersmith and his kind were able to produce a powerful internal voltage. The only difference was that a Sky Eel administered the lethal energy through its jaws; for M. Coopersmith, it would be his elbow blades.

Now, transformation complete, he waited.

M. Coopersmith had not said so before, but he had an additional reason for staying in human form until the last minute. He had developed a set of personality traits as a human being that did not carry over to his true self. His desire to protect both the Remnant and the two young humans with him would have remained intact, but his expression of that desire would have been different, rougher, colder. Not good for dealing with young humans—though for a Sky Eel, perfect.

The ground shook.

It was almost here...

***

Chris and Samantha hurried toward the five-acre expanse that had been cleared along the Summerville River. Glancing back, they could no longer see M. Coopersmith, as their view was blocked by the cast-off materials of industry.

Panting, Chris set down the Remnant.

"I hope this is the right place," he said to Samantha.

"Me too."

***

The Sky Eel exploded from the earth in a whirlwind of dirt and torn roots, and the reaction of M. Coopersmith, armored alien warrior, was different from the one he would have had as M. Coopersmith, genteel Southern businessman. The present M. Coopersmith was glad to see the monster, thrilled even. He had yearned to kill a Sky Eel for a very long time now, almost as far back as he could remember, and disposing of it by means of a trap, as he had done with the other Sky Eel, brought only the barest satisfaction.

But to kill one personally...that would be superb.

Limited in its faculties, the Sky Eel nevertheless recognized its quarry had taken on a new and fearsome visage. It also detected that the Remnant was farther out, and so it bolted into the sky, keen to avoid a confrontation with this far more formidable version of M. Coopersmith.

But it could not. Effortlessly, M. Coopersmith leapt a good one hundred feet into the air, meeting the Sky Eel in cold, empty black space, and slashed it across its snout with the sharp appendage arcing from his right elbow. The damage inflicted was twofold: physical injury, plus a tremendous shock.

And an effective attack, too; the Sky Eel, shrieking, plunged to the ground. M. Coopersmith landed on top of it, went on to inflict a series of strikes upon the monster.

And as he did this, he remembered.

He remembered the terraced gardens of his homeworld.

He remembered the great old warriors who had trained him when he was young.

He remembered the young warriors who had been his cherished friends.

He remembered that hardly any of those warriors, young or old, lived now, and that the terraced gardens of his homeworld were bits of sand floating in space.

He remembered legions of Sky Eels spilling down from the skies, overwhelming the tiny garrison that had represented his people's last outpost of resistance.

He remembered the shame of retreating before those legions.

He remembered the rage he felt at his own helplessness; the guilt of having survived the onslaught when so many others had not; he remembered vowing revenge for the atrocities of the Great Enemy that he could not bring himself to name even now, because to do so was to cause him a physical revulsion so great it bordered on pain.

He remembered watching his planet, the repository of all his history, the only home he had ever known, explode into a trillion barren fragments. He remembered wishing he had been on it when it was obliterated, and cursing those elders of his race who had chosen for him to be among the few who survived.

Remembering all of this, he struck the Sky Eel again and again and again. And with every blow he honored that which he had lost.

***

Chris and Samantha heard the Sky Eel's screeching, the crackling noises; they saw flashes from the ground rising into the night sky.

"What's happening?" Samantha whispered.

"I don't know," Chris said.

***

The Sky Eel's jaws closed on M. Coopersmith's right leg, and too late M. Coopersmith realized his error: he had allowed himself to enjoy the fight too much; had reveled in the sweetness of the monster's howls of alarm, of suffering, to the point that he had forgotten how dangerous and powerful it still was. So doing, he had given it the opportunity to inflict some damage of its own. His hardy alien constitution preserved him from a charge of energy that would have been sufficient to kill a hundred human beings, but just barely. He staggered, knocked the Sky Eel away, but it charged him and bit down again, this time on his shoulder.

***

Chris looked up at the sky. "Come on," he urged. "Where are y'all? Come on."

***

The tide had turned. M. Coopersmith was on his knees, still grappling with the Sky Eel, but he had received too many injuries in the last few moments to continue the fight successfully. Bite marks from the Eel riddled his vast body, yet these hadn't hurt him badly; rather, it was the multiple shocks he had received. He was disoriented, weakening fast. He could not mount an effective defense, let alone offense. And the Sky Eel sensed its advantage, hitting him with yet another bite, this time to the base of his neck. M. Coopersmith's tiny mouth froze in a silent "O."

***

"What if they don't come?" Samantha said.

"Don't say that," Chris told her, desperately scanning the night sky. "They've got to. They've got to."

Samantha clutched his arm. "Chris," she said. Her voice was very small. "Look..."

And Chris looked, in the direction that she was looking, back in the direction they had come from, he looked and saw—

—the Sky Eel.

It was burned and gashed and sliced open in a dozen places, and yet it was as frightening in appearance as ever, perhaps even more so. It spiraled toward them, hissing its dreadful hiss, its eyes wild with pain, with madness.

Neither Chris nor Samantha could move. Instinctively they realized there was no point. They could not run from it. Even if they handed over the Remnant, it would still kill them, just as it had no doubt killed M. Coopersmith.

He failed, Chris thought as the Sky Eel loomed over them. He couldn't protect us.

And now we die.

We die.

And then a strange figure leaped high into the darkness behind the Sky Eel, high into the night air. It hovered for a moment and then descended, gravity hurtling it down, faster and faster, with terrible blades extending from both arms at the elbows, and the right blade trained directly on the back of the Sky Eel's head. Now Chris and Samantha dropped to the ground as that blade plunged into the Sky Eel's skull, splitting it in two, with the blade protruding grotesquely from the mouth of the monster as it sank to earth with the strange figure who they knew without knowing was M. Coopersmith lying astride it, like Captain Ahab on the back of Moby Dick.

Then: a flash of light, followed by a boom, after which nothing remained of the Sky Eel's corpse but ashes and a sickly green haze.

Chris and Samantha picked themselves off the ground. Behind them lay the Remnant in its sack, all but forgotten at the moment.

A figure was emerging from the fast-dissipating haze: a small, stumbling figure.

Samantha identified him first. "Mr. Coopersmith?"

They waited for a moment, unsure if they should come forward.

"Are you okay?" Chris asked him.

M. Coopersmith made no response, only took a few more steps in their direction, and then dropped to his knees.

"Mr. Coopersmith!" cried Samantha.

He fell onto his back as they hurried to him.

"Children," he whispered as Chris and Samantha took opposite sides of his now-unmoving body.

"Just hang on, Mr. Coopersmith," Samantha said, taking his hand. "Your people are coming. They'll help you."

"No, it's all right," M. Coopersmith told her. "Just as I promised..."

"Please, Mr. Coopersmith, try to hang on," Samantha urged him. "Help is coming. I know it is. You just have to hang on."

"Tonight..." M. Coopersmith began.

His eyes were dulling now.

"...we all..."

His grip loosened around Samantha's hand.

"...go home."

That was the end. His hand fell from Samantha's and he lay still. He drew no breath; his eyes held no light; he was gone in a moment.

But Christopher Gerald Taylor of Summerville, Georgia, refused to accept this.

"Wait, Mr. Coopersmith," the boy pleaded, leaning down so that their faces were inches apart, "don't give up so easy. Try to laugh. You said it healed you before when you laughed. So please, try to laugh now. I'll help you, okay? I'll help you laugh. I'll tell you a joke. A duck walks into a bar—oh, man. I've already screwed it up. I'll try again. A man walks into a bar carrying a duck. The bartender says to him, 'Hey, where'd you get that duck?' And the guy says..."

His voice trailed off then, for suddenly M. Coopersmith began to change. His appearance was alien, but less so than Chris might have thought. The eyes were large, the forehead high, the mouth small...but there were many differences between the face of the being that had posed as M. Coopersmith and the alien face so often described by UFO abductees. There was wisdom in that face, to be sure, but also, somehow, deep kindness: the face of a compassionate, if alien, philosopher-king. Chris could not understand why M. Coopersmith had not shown him this face before. There was nothing the least bit startling about it. This was a good face, a noble face.

It was also the face he could hide so long as he was alive, Chris decided, which meant he was not alive anymore.

And yet Chris urged the alien on in his mind, one last time: Laugh, Mr. Coopersmith.

Please, won't you laugh?

But there was nothing. They were kneeling beside a corpse. And still Samantha asked, "Is he dead?"

"I think so...yeah."

Behind them now: light and heat, followed by a rush of wind. Almost in unison, Chris and Samantha looked back, and then up in the air.

10

Where were you guys when we needed you? Chris thought as he watched the alien craft lower itself into the field.

It was a beautiful ship, triangular in shape rather than circular, about thirty feet in length, blue and gold with strange, hieroglyphic symbols running along its edges. It made no sound other than a low, soothing hum. It sank a few inches into the dirt and the humming stopped.

A hatch opened on the side facing Chris and Samantha.

Here we go, Chris thought. He looked down at the body of M. Coopersmith. Maybe we should run. What if they think we were the ones who killed him?

But somehow he knew they wouldn't think that.

Somehow he knew the crisis was past.

This was just the mopping up.

Two beings identical in appearance to the body that lay before them descended from the hatch, then two more, and two more, and so on until there were fourteen such aliens. At last another alien appeared, with a single feature to distinguish it from the other beings: two gold bands down the side of its face, and another one across its forehead. It motioned to the body of M. Coopersmith, and immediately the phalanx of fourteen approached them. Chris and Samantha got to their feet, backed away as the aliens lifted M. Coopersmith off the ground, hoisted him onto their shoulders, and then turned to carry his lifeless form back onto the ship. The gold-banded alien—the Fifteenth, as Chris instantly deemed it—bent down and picked up the Remnant. Then it too turned away, started off behind them.

Chris had planned to keep his mouth shut. He had worked hard to do it. But he just couldn't help himself. He had to say something. He stared hard at the alien and called out, "Hey!"

The Fifteenth stopped, pivoted, and faced him.

Looks like I really did it this time.

But Chris decided to keep talking anyway. "Hey, listen to me. He died so you could have that." He pointed to the Remnant in the alien's arms. "He died."

The Fifteenth appraised him dispassionately.

"I thought you should know."

Now the alien was walking toward him.

What did I just do? Chris wondered. Did I make it mad? What's it going to do to me?

The Fifteenth reached for the boy's head with its great hand. Chris flinched at first—and then he realized what was about to happen.

Gently, the alien cupped its hand over his head; as he felt the warmth of its palm against his skin, so too did Chris hear, in his own voice, these words:

"Thank you."

That was all.

The Fifteenth let its hand fall from Chris' head. Then it turned around and went back inside its ship. The hatch closed, and the craft began to hum again.

Together, Chris and Samantha watched it rise into the air. It lingered for a moment, high above them, and then zipped into space.

After a few moments, still holding hands, they embarked on a slow shuffle back to the building—now dark and vacant—that they had fled in terror a mere ninety minutes ago. Of course, it was a much nicer trip this time, through quiet downtown Summerville with its glowing lamplights, clean sidewalks, and darkened storefronts: Crawford's Jewelers; Suzie's Sweet Shop; the Summerville Times; Barron's Fine Menswear; many others.

On the way, they spoke little.

In the days to come, there would be much excited talk in this fine old town about the strange mild earthquakes that had taken place tonight. Someone would report that a window had been broken at the now-vacated Offices of M. Coopersmith. Several others would report on a loud explosion heard that same night from the vicinity of the Port of Summerville. Then, of course, someone out fishing at night on the Summerville River would tell his friends he had seen a UFO land on the riverbank, but nobody would buy it because the guy in question was known for telling tall tales.

And life would go on, yes, go on just like the stars that glimmered in the sky above; just like the moon that drew in the tides that, in turn, fed the vast saltmarshes gracing the coast of Georgia; just like the Earth that kept turning; just like the yellow sun, hidden now, that nourished and warmed and brought life to the forests and the plains of grass and the oceans stretching out below it.

All of it going on, going on...

As they prepared to cross Bridgewell Street, Chris glanced up at the night sky and thought: I never got to ask him what the M. in M. Coopersmith stood for. It was probably several different names, all for different times or different generations, just to keep up the illusion that it hadn't been the same guy for the last hundred years. Who knows how he pulled it off, all that time. He just did, I guess.

Samantha's hand felt warm, felt good, in his. But for the moment Chris was lost in his own thoughts.

And I think I understand now what the phrase "Offices of M. Coopersmith" really meant. "Offices" didn't refer to a building. It referred to the titles he carried: Protector, Warrior, Guide, lousy joke-teller, longtime resident, friend to young people and old people and everyone in between, even if they never knew it. Those were the real Offices of M. Coopersmith, not some old building.

They were almost there.

But I still wonder what the M stood for.

Chris glanced up again. It was clear enough for him to make out an arm of the Milky Way Galaxy gracing the sky overhead: billions of tiny stars, so faint they looked like celestial mist.

I've got a suggestion, if anyone's interested.

Once more he looked straight ahead.

"Magnificent."

Chris and Samantha arrived at the crushed-shell parking lot of the Offices of M. Coopersmith. The pair had walked in silence for a while now, but as they came up to Samantha's car, she asked him, "What kind of dog was Buster?"

Aside from the dialogue that question launched, as well as the little bit of noise the two kids made as they got into the Ford Mustang to drive home, the only sound that could be heard nearby came from a small sign on the building's front lawn; swaying gently in the night breeze, that sign read, in plain black lettering, "Offices of M. Coopersmith."

***

So, then: how well do you ever really know somebody else?

It depends. With some folks you can learn all you need to know in a single night.

Just ask Chris Taylor and Samantha Gibbons of Summerville, Georgia.

They'll tell you.

