 
# The Secret of Sex

### By

### Oluwafemi Israel

### Copyright 2014 Oluwafemi Israel

### Smashwords Edition

This free ebook is licensed for your edification and may not be sold to other people. It may be copied, distributed, reposted, reprinted and shared, provided it appears in its entirety without alteration, and the reader is not charged to access it. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author

However, if you are inspired by the content of this book and you wish to **support** the ministry, you can do so at your **voluntary will**. You are not in any form charged for reading or distributing this gospel work.

GOB BLESS YOU

We are poised at illuminating the world with gospel amenities.

Other books by Oluwafemi Israel

The Survivors (a drama written to campaign against child abuse)

Upcoming books:

Black blood (Novel)

Mr. EBola (Comedy drama)

Fundamental Principles of life (non-fiction)

Mood Management (Non-fiction)

Upcoming movie:

Friend indeed (Gospel)

Table of Contents

Title page

TOC

THE SECRET OF SEX

COMBAT SEX

HAZARD OF INTRADENOMINATIONAL MARRIAGE

SEX AND POVERTY

SOULLESS SEX

ALCOHOL AND SEX

SYMPTOMS OF OCCULTISM.

THE SECRET SUPENATURAL WORLD

CALAMITIES ASSOCIATED WITH SEX

Mind Locking

PREVENTION IS THE BEST CURE.

SPIRIT HUSBAND AND SPIRIT WIFE

THE REAL SERVICE OF HELP MEET.

THREE STATES OF MARRIAGE

Total Light

Crippled Reality

Total Darkness

Conclusion

**THE SECRET OF SEX**

God is spirit. (Jn. 4:24) Everything He created is created spiritually. He says in Rev. 4:11that:

"You are worthy, O Lord,

To receive glory and honour and power;

For You created all things,

And by Your will they exist and were created."

Yet He preserves the understanding of his work only for those who are submissive to His absolute rulership.

There are many things to understand about sex that can never be known naturally or scientifically. The real truth about the spirituality of sex can only be partly known by the principles in the evil world. The fact is that sex is too spiritual. To enjoy the comfort of sex and avert the constraint there of, it is only the truth, the maker of sex and the associate culture that can bring awareness of what he created.

I gather these facts from diverse personal life experiences which include pre-marital experience, the experience in marriage and the miseries of diverse spiritual encounters experience in marital conflicts.

Some rules about safe sex are significant. The pleasure of sex is indispensable. At certain age, it may be hard to resist but before attaining the so call evil days as specified in Eccl 12:1, it is best to acquire this understanding.

Sex supernatural attack started in my life in 1982. The precise date I do not know, but I remember vividly the evil visitation of that tall slim demon about the height of the door post. He was in black suntans. He walked in and stood at the centre of the room at the precise time that I rose up to go and ease myself (urinate). With his staff stretched forth to my forehead, a strong force of sexual domination was powerfully converged on my mind, I felt strangely sexy as if I should get down from the top of the double decker bed and began fondling my cousins. Thank God for the name that is above all names. Repeatedly, I called the name. For over one hour, I was stiff on the bed carried away in speechless spirit war struggling and preventing my mind to be driven beyond control. After unknown hours or repeated calling of the name "Jesus", the Lord gave me victory. I noticed, before 5am, the devil would just bring down his staff and walk away.

This evil scenario repeatedly occurred, and the victory followed the same pattern till the unknown time within the same year that the evil visitation was not noticed again.

But sex related spiritual war only stepped aside awhile. From one stage to the other till date, I encounter diverse supernatural war relating to sex matter. I discovered that this aspect of life is a significant war that all followers of Jesus Christ must perfectly understand.

My spiritual understanding at 13 when the problem was launched was incomparable to what it is now. But if at 13 you acquire this understanding and you keep your passion for Christ real and alive in the supernatural. I am very certain, your spiritual understanding when you will attain this age will be far above my present level and that in turn, will be an asset to the coming generation.

Take note of one fact, the comfort of sex is not in the immoral world. God does not say "thou shall not enjoy your life." From all my understanding about the conflict I discovered on the issues of sex, it is evident that the practical impression of the instruction of God against sex related transgression (as it is to all other sins) is simply refrained as "don't hurt you self''.

Fornication, adultery, lesbianism, bestialism, homosexuality, gay or whatever its name may be; to the captive of the occult, it may look as indispensable comfort. They will all definitely end up in hell fire. But the effect of sex related sin, in the evil world, is worse than comfort that tends to be captivating in the physical. This evil transcends beyond the terrain of transgression. Sex related supernatural war that can occur between legally married couple, especially, where one of the spouse is genuine Christian is so worse that, to be eunuch is far better than marrying a child of another god.

Understand my pattern of writing please, I may write in no specific pattern as the thought comes to me, but I am certain that you will love to be more safety conscious at the end of the epistle. Feel free to pass your query, comments or questions. I will so much love to respond without delay.

Why is Satan desperate to use this tool?

To have perfect understanding of this subject matter, there must be optimum understanding of your spiritual system. Real and secured sexual pleasure and righteousness of God are inseparable. Your good luck is embedded within the content of the spirit of your mind. The great secret of the spirit of your mind can never be naturally known. There are two ways to acquire this extreme secret.

If you are initiated into fundamental cult, definitely, automatically, you will know your mind as the real you. Your senses will be extended out of the carnal body into the bodies of your soul and spirit, which is the negative route to the understanding of the soul and the spirit of your mind. The eyes will see beyond the flesh and the ears beyond the carnal but the understanding will rather be amplified evil and advance automatic hatred against reality (TRUTH). This definitely is a disastrous way to understand your supernatural self.

The alternative way is too extreme. Christ is the way (to all understanding), the truth (about all fact of live) and the life (that is without regret). The constrain is that the integrity of faith of man in Christ is severely dented by carnality of modern most Christians. The understanding in Him is abroad. Certainly, it is endless, but what you understand in Him is what you strive to know, not what is enforced on you against your will. Hence, the truth is enormous, but the extent of your understanding is determined by your commitment.

2 Tim 2:15

Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

1Thes. 5:21

Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.

Brutal experience led me into prayer, studies and thinking. It eventually amplifies my understanding about life. Learning from the angle of faith in Christ Jesus, sex is discovered to be precisely soul related affair. There are diverse types of sex discovered in live. Combat sex is the worst and a secret sex style that an ordinary man cannot understand. This precisely is what I want Christian to understand.

**COMBAT SEX**

Combat sex occurs between a skill fundamental cultist and a targeted prey. Most of those chicks that tactically expose their sexy figures to drive and attract the attention of targets are highly skilled in the supernatural. They can easily drive you to feel uncontrollably sexy, but they perfectly control their souls in the body.

Combat sex can occur between two cultists

It can be between a cultist and an ordinary non-Christian fellow.

But in the extreme case, it is an ultimate weapon applied against real Christians. This is where it goes beyond sin.

Before talking about other aspects, let me concentrate on the last point which is the most significant. That is, sex war against Christians.

Hazard of intra-denominational marriage.

Sex and poverty

Alcohol & sex

The secret world of sex

Bondage and sex.

Destiny redirect

Mind changing

Integrity evacuation/memory loss

The need for soul activation

The real service of help meet

Marriage and sex.

The mystery of spirit spouse

Pleasure is the driver of commitment

HAZARD OF INTRADENOMINATIONAL MARRIAGE

In the late 1980s, the Lord revealed a secret to me about the Cherubim and Seraphim church I attended in my hometown, Ilesa. In the physical, the Cathedral has no form of underground structures, but in the spirit realm, the underground hall was like a long classroom where a prophet train the youths. The youths I saw in the night revelation were in both genders. Thought the duration of the revelation was short, I perceive some familiar faces.

The secret of love is beyond the physical. Human live has been extended beyond the physical, that is where most human attach their senses (sense of belonging, commitment and responsibility). As a matter of fact, the evil world beyond the physical is their passionate place of citizenship just as the genuine followers of Jesus have our place of citizenship in heaven (Phil 3:20). To arrest the destiny of any body and to keep any person under occult control, he or she must be separated from the fundamental art of integrity of the heart. This branch of thought is a point of conflict. The spirit of the mind is like compact disk lens that reads the information.

I saw the youths sit like student in rows and column with each having his or her wooden locker and chair. The physically uncivilized prophet was in jacket. Though I did not hear the content of their lecture but I perceive he spoke fluently. In the supernatural, linguistic problem does not exist.

Physically, I lay on the bed in my dad's room. As usual I was not asleep at that period. Thinking and praying mostly occupy my night though I might be looking asleep. As I lay on the bed with my head on the pillow, I saw as if my body extended to the class with my head in the front on a table. For many years I suffer invisible massacre on my head which often led to unbearable ache. I discovered at a period that I had a broken skull which I used to feel physical. This broken spot was like a leakage terminal for them. Everything I was thinking about was like a radio broadcast for them. So I had no secret.

Every plan I had about my life which use to occupy most of my thought was their case study in the spirit. Since the Lord opened my eyes to see thing. I cautioned myself about friendship in the church. But most especially, I 'tamed' my 'organ' not to trespass.

But I eventually ended up martially with a lady from another Christian said Seraphim Church in the same town. After 13 years of marriage, the whole secret was clearly unveiled. It was a great supernatural setup.

I left Cherubim and Seraphim and, I never attend any church for about five years. I started worshiping in Pentecostal church since around 2003. I have been to about four or five Bible believing church, as a gifted visioner, spiritual thinker and spiritual researcher, when it comes to supernatural analysis, there is rarely a difference in the structure of churches. The great difference is in the physical administrative strategy. If the matter to address is cult, no denomination is better.

Every denomination has link to occult. Take note of one gospel strategy in the so called bible believing church where 'gospel' is termed to be. The principal problem the rampage the world is the rulership and the supremacy of worldwide union of occult forces. Cult is in two categories: I do not regard open cult as a cult group though they may be deadly. Every cult traceable and apprehensible by the cops is indeed not cult. I treat them as a branch of hooliganism and more to that, victims of parental fundamental cultism membership.

[I have more to discuss about this later, perhaps, in another book]

In most of the modern churches, soul winning is not really for the sake of eternity. It is a membership maximization strategy which is executed greatly with the active secret supernatural tools.

Since I was young till now, the major problem found in the church (and in the immediate society) was increasing extremely high level of soul mobility. It seems to be that until one's soul is activated to be able to function independently outside the body, success of live cannot be accomplished. Hence, strategies are been put in place in diverse way by Satan to activate the soul. The church through which the soul is activated determines the actual deity that owns the soul and the fundamental live style the individual lives thenceforth.

Take note that modern sermons are void of supernatural details yet supernatural miracles are performed. Take note also that many miracles are performed (Rev. 13:13, 14) yet corruption in the church today is like the worst in the history of the world. Is the Holy Spirit of the present generation not capable of evacuating the occult transgression in the church but can only perform great miracles?

I don't want to digress out of the sex related focus, but this is another matter to discuss in details. If truly you love Jesus and you need Him, (not just any miracle,) then this matter is significant to you. Fundamental cultists are selling out the church to satan.

Fundamental cultists had been in existence since the root of life. The Bible made mention of them in Ex. 22:18

Virtually all denominations have roots in the occult which is very firm. In modern gospel, this aspect of transgression is rarely addressed. supernatural transgression makes up the root of all evils and the base of all sins in the world. If truly preachers preach to convey souls from darkness into marvellous light, then all other soul winning gospel topics are secondary.

White witchcraft, Awo (as it is called in Yoruba land), Rosicrucian, lodge, sorcery, black witchcraft, wizard etc are all fundamental cult groups that had been in existence since the beginning of live. As a matter of fact, the demolition of tower of Babel was to disunite the first worldwide union of occult forces.

Gen 11:5-9 says,

5 And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded.

6 And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech.

8 So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the Lord did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

The unity discovered by God in the above reference was a result of possessive state of their spirits.

Any sermon that logically or otherwise bypass or ignore the reality of the necessity of supernatural truth tactically integrate occult domination into the church. To maintain and maximize membership in modern churches, strategies of denominationalised initiation is launched. This matter is a complex issue that is some worth hard for me to explain. The principal root of transgression is the secret life beyond the physical. Any Christian organization that logically ignore the global violent dominating effort of fundamental cultism but instead, place unrealistic or secondary matter as fundamental necessity is logically integrated with the fundamental cult. This is what Rev. 13:8 referred to as second beast which was established by the first beast (fundamental cult). Let me refer to a revelation to analyse my point. One night, the Lord opened my eyes to see a vision. I saw a pretty damsel (well known physically). I saw her stood on a round stage of about 2metres in diameter. She was the district queen of that neighbourhood in the spirit realm, where as she was a cool headed naturally decent young lady in the physical. The head of a church stood before her panicking as he seek permission before making announcement in the church where he was the leader. Church nowadays is a secret base of initiation into occult world.

In this kind of demonization, intra-denominational marriage and child dedication are risky. As a great matter of fact, it is saved to be barren than to have fruit of womb that will be subconsciously initiated into denominationalised cult.

The scripture says in Matt 24:19-24 that,

And woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!

But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the sabbath day:

For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.

And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened.

Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not.

For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect.

The word 'woe' is an extreme expression of the gravity of the circumstances that would befall the world at the time of fulfilment of the prophecy.

The world is blindfolded with glamour, civilization and especially technological mysteries. Sport, business and all other engaging life tasks are strategic tools of satan to keep the world busy and spiritually asleep. The most fundamental thing going on today is INITIATION INTO FUNDAMENTAL CULT. The only set of people left naturally uneasy to rule are followers of Jesus. Christianized marriage is an active tool they are using to translocate the spirit of the mind away from the location of fundamental truth into the psycho-spiritual location (translocation) of fundamental evil without any trace in the physical status of church. Most churches are independent occult unit where evil spiritual trades go on. Truth is no longer preached in the church; hence making heaven is not the priority of 'Christian role model'.

Viewing the world from this angle, you will discover that the two major achieve organizations that exit on earth are the real followers of Jesus and the fundamental cultist. So do not slumber, be aware that in this present day, there is no domination where fundamental cult is not firmly rooted. They maximized and sustain membership through initiation. Beware of denominationalised marriage.

Well, however, those that will make heaven are not outside Christendom, hence, I do not over generalize. But, I say again, BE WATCHFUL. Marriage can be used as tool of initiation in denominationalist cult. To avert this evil, first and foremost LOVE JESUS, THE TRUTH above all things.

Luke 14:26-27 says,

If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.

And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple.

The advantage of fundamental passion for Christ is to flush and reset your system. It does not mean destructive hatred.

Once the foundation of your understanding of reset, based on that principle you can then know how to integrate your system with other aspects of life which include marriage.

Consider the following living instruction in 2 Cor. 6:14-16

Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? And what communion has light with darkness? And what accord has Christ with Belial? Or what part has a believer with an unbeliever? 16 And what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. As God has said:

"I will dwell in them

And walk among them.

I will be their God,

And they shall be My people."

Read also pledge of Apostle Paul:

Rom 8:35-39

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?

As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.

For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,

Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Let me speak a little about this verse "do not be unequally yoke". Some sentimental Christian might use this verse to justify denominationalised marriage. Life is in the spirit. Even in this world, several Pastors and general overseer are solely cult dependants. Truth is spirit. Those who love and belong to the truth accept Him in the spirit and in the truth. A specific denomination is definitely not the restricted location of reality of Christ. The most sensitive issue in life is soul binding that we call MARRIAGE. A wrong step into it is hard to survive. The injury of the survivors may be hard to heal. Let sentimentalism be shown in gospel.

The scripture precisely says in Deut 7:3-4

" _Nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son._

For they will turn your sons away from following Me, to serve other gods; so the anger of the Lord will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly."

So, the fundamental rules to be cognizance of it is that, as we have in industrial world, 'safety first'. If truly you are genuinely in Christ, please note. Legal Christianized marriage between a genuine follower of Jesus and a Christianized cultist is a secret ongoing supernatural war in Christendom. This is a secret strategy to substitute fundamental Christianity with cult based Christianity. Hence, perfect marriage is comfort embedded in war. Safeguard first, your faith. Marriage is more complex than mere physical coming together and husband and wife.

Prov. 18:22 says,

He who finds a wife finds a good thing,

And obtains favour from the Lord.

You must use all the tools of your Christ based soul, spirit and body to avert strategies of Satan in the church. Above all, strive to receive Holy Ghost genuinely and see vision as the word of God says in Act 2:17 that

...Your young men shall see visions,

God knows the necessity to be directly informed. That is why the Bible says the youth (that need to search for spouse) shall see vision.

If you don't understand the reality of the supernatural, you cannot be the boss of a woman. The vision some so called anointed men of God in prophetic ministry will see next day in the so called Prophetic ministry, some unrecognized floor members in the church can see it days ahead as highly developed as they are in the evil world. Yet they will appear tender as spiritual infant.

A slight deviation from Christ in marriage turns marriage into cult. This (sex is soul integration) is what is secretly going on globally.

Sex is soul integrator which binds two individuals together. That is why sex outside marriage is not pleasure but satanic bondage. But the bondage is deadlier if a Christian legally bind himself or herself with an achieve cultist. The legal binding makes it had to escape. It may end up to be slavery ground. Do not over-spiritualise your faith and the grace of God that we have. Sex with cultist is soul binding with disaster. It evacuates the inspiration of life in the Christian. The loss is immeasurable; the gain is meagre and volatile. Do not be denominationalised, BE IN CHRIST.

Judging from many years of revelations, there is no denomination where fundamental cult is not rooted. Obviously, the book of Job 1:6 says

Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them.

Satan is working hard secretly to maximise his gains of souls. He knows his time is up (Rev. 12:12.) and the only souls left uncaptured are the followers of Jesus whose names are written in the book of life. (Rev. 13:8).

Learn and be wise. Success in marriage is largely determined by soul compatibility. Preachers and church leaders might not tell you the extreme details of secret cult in churches. They are after numeric growth of church. I will rather share this truth with the followers of Jesus than to be sentimental simply because of desire for physical denominational increase.

Supernatural strategy of matchmaking is a high level secret in Christian organisations. If the right spouse is found in your denomination, good luck, otherwise, it is safer to be eunuch for Christ sake than to end up in a matrimonial chimney of supernatural distress. The will of satan is to initiate the whole world into his evil kingdom (Rev. 16:16). Whoever resists will suffer severe wretchedness (Rev. 16:17). Take note again, real sex activate soul, combat sex destroys the spirit. Beware. Be watchful of traps of religious spirit in the church, end time war is ongoing.

**SEX AND POVERTY:**

The scripture reflects the principal will of God for us through his Apostle in 3 John 2

Beloved, I pray that you may prosper in all things and be in health, just as your soul prospers.

That is obvious. In Luke 12:27-32, Christ promises not just wealth like lilies of the valley, but kingdom.

Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field, and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith?

And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.

For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.

But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.

Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.

This is His fundamental mindset towards us.

In Gen. 2:15, God gave Adam his primary administrative responsibility, the first law, his wage and the condition of service.

Then the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to tend and keep it. 16 And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; 17 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die."

When God was settled with Adam's employment, wages, accommodation, fringe benefit and condition of service, He realised that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. Pleasure for hard working man, is a necessity, he planned to give a pleasure colleague...

Verse 18:

And the Lord God said, "It is not good that man should be alone; I will make him a helper comparable to him."

...But God never give him the pleasure colleague yet until He supervised the execution of Adam's first official duty, then God remembered the necessity of relaxation and pleasure.

Verses 19 and 20.

Out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called each living creature, that was its name. 20 So Adam gave names to all cattle, to the birds of the air, and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper comparable to him.

It was after confirming the efficiency of Adam that God fulfilled the promise of a pleasure mate.

Verse 21:

And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept; and He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place. 22 Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man He made into a woman, and He brought her to the man.

At first sight, Adam admired the damsel. On the spot, he launched full scale love towards her.

Verse 23

And Adam said:

"This is now bone of my bones

And flesh of my flesh;

She shall be called Woman,

Because she was taken out of Man."

And in the garden of Eden, they wedded.

Verse 24-25.

Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.

And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.

Sex is not just pleasure of the canal body, sex engages the souls. I learn from personal life experience. We are created as soul, spirit and body. These three personalities work unanimously synchronously. they execute every action carried by each for perfection to be established. The most sensitive and the most significant one of these three that needs to be understood and perfectly nourish is the spirit of the mind. Naturally, it is impossible to understand the spirit of the mind who is the principal person in every human being.

I discovered great fact about the spirit of the mind. If we are talking about prison of occult forces or occult bondage, it simply means keeping hostage the spirit of the mind. Though many supernatural conditions can bring about supernatural imprisonment, if one is not guilty (Jn. 3:18), there is always a way out (Jn. 8:32, 36.) But for a tender human element irrespective of gender, to engage in sex with a cultist, is simply to entangle the spirit of his or her mind in the prison of the occult forces. Every principal cultist understands this mind entanglement strategy of domination. This is where the issue of sex goes beyond mere sin but it is a broad route to great occult bondage.

Prov. 7:26-27 says,

For she has cast down many wounded,

And all who were slain by her were strong men.

Her house is the way to hell,

Descending to the chambers of death.

I always love God whenever I discovered His leadership strategy. He enforces reality through law.

"I wish above all thing that them may be in GOOD HEALTH..." How will you be in good health of the mind when the spirit created in the likeness of the most High God is entangled as fowl in a cage of a witch just because of sex that can be legitimately and righteous enjoyed without sorrow if you follow the rule (Deut. 7)?

The wish of satan is just opposite the will of God. If the will of God for us is to be in good health and prosper, definitely the will of satan for God's children of god is to be sick and wretched. The bible says in Jn. 10: 10 that

John 10:10

The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.

Several evil things do cause occult bondage, but I am restricted here to concentrate on sex related occult bondage. I am certain, the evil perpetrators will never want this secret unveiled. Please, do me a great favour by studying this message and sharing it with the world.

The spirit of the mind is the carrier of the luck of every individual. He is the filament of every man's star. The capacity of luck created by God in each human is beyond what can be evaluated with a financial figure. If the luck in the spirit of the mind is discovered and accomplished, the poorest street beggar can still be richer than the richest.

This is what God already created in us not what He will start to do. A create battle is going on in the spirit realm. These wicked evil folks have discovered how to evacuate the luck of an individual away from his life and utilise it for supernatural illegal wealth acquisition. No man can have access to his personal luck as long he can be derailed from the art of the righteousness of God in the heart. The most convenient 'slider' to drive the spirit out of the road is sexual pervasion.

It is not possible to be wrong and to be right at the same time. You cannot be guilty and be justified at the time. What is wrong is wrong and what is right is right. The loving God warn us to FLEE from sexual immorality (1 Cor.6:18). Of all sins, this is specifically most deadly to destiny. All sins can derail integrity in Christ and thereby lead to satanic bondage, but this is the most difficult to resist.

If the spirit of the mind is derailed from the path of righteousness, the only way left to survive is to belong to fundamental cult. This is what promotes evil in the society. Churches of God are been inflicted with this evil virus. If the generational side effect is understood, we would have known that Ebola is not the worse virus. Sex outside righteousness is an extremely reliable tool of occult bondage and initiation.

This are the processes.

  * Soulless sex – lead to bondage

  * Soul to soul Christ–free sex activates soul into occult. Cult commences the moment the two can be consciously communicating in the soul realm. This is an ever growing secret evil life in the evil world.

If they don't get their prey initiated, they will castrate the fellow. Sex is war. It is the most active weapon in the armoury of darkness. The only secured place where the comfort of sex exists is strictly and precisely where the two parties involved are genuinely in Christ otherwise, there is a bondage trap for a prey. Sexual immorality is not comfort, it is war. Rev. 17:1-8.

SOULLESS SEX

I discovered a great secret and limitation of the sex gland in the endocrine system. The scripture says in Rom 1:28

And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient;

Prostrate or testes gland, building sex understanding on this glands is simply reprobate indeed. As good as it is to understand the details of one's body system. Sex of all things is more spiritual that what prostrate or testicular gland controlled pleasure can analyze.

Beyond the gland are soul and spirit whose perfect understanding is more significant than live in the body.

What is soulless sex? And what is the effect of it? How is it done and why? How to detect soulless sex and what measure to take if detected in (i) marriage (ii) courtship (iii) worldly life

Sexual Feeling

The word 'love' does not exist in the profile of the kingdom of darkness, what they have, instead, is pleasure. Love is not real in the evil world. The best feeling that can be found in them is real desire for sex. Love is a product of integrity. The only field where the inspiration of this integrity exists is in Christ Jesus. No wonder Christ says categorically that He is the way, the truth and life (Jn. 14:6). Sexual feeling is an inspiration converged in the soul of every human. With or without true love it can be triggered under diverse condition. The binding force of the feeling is meant to generate true love but where there is no truth, the feeling has no shield, hence it becomes a randomly generated impression once a soul is within it activated environment. Outside Jesus, where there is no integrity, the gluing power of the feeling is what satan use to bind diverse souls irrationally together. But where there is truth, it is a dynamic tool for soul binding and activation.

Fundamental cult exists in the spirit realm at all levels: Infant, youth, feminine, masculine or adult cult. To activate a soul outside Christ is a speedy effort of the kingdom of darkness. Sex is a reliable natural tool to trigger the soul system. Where truth does not exist, this activation automatically integrates into occult. If the system is negatively triggered, the spiritual sense of secrecy is auto activated and lives are partitioned; the secret soul life which is fundamental cult status is distinctively partitioned from the physical life.

Through sex, prey can be initiated, or kept in occult bondage or both. Sex is an active tool of domestic supernatural war. This is where misery of soulless sex is a great weapon to bind or deactivate soul.

A gradual deactivation subjects mind to gradually increasing easy external control. Just like the physical health, dehydration of human system brings about weakness of the body which leads to death if not controlled, likewise when a wicked spouse engages in sex with a partner but consciously withdraw her soul from the body in the course of sex. This sexual strategy is exists where a preactivated soul engages in sex with someone of incompatible soul. This is the hidden secret side of sex that the inactive soul partner can never naturally detect. It is a great combat weapon of occult agent to evacuate life out of the follower of Jesus. Most real Christian never understand the secret of the other world – (the evil world is not proverbs or idiomatic expression. It is a real world where the fundamental cultist dwells. It is not myth). This is naturally undetectable secret of evil soul. The bible says in 1 John 5:19

And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness.

By soul disengaging, the targeted prey's soul depreciates in inspiration like in physical dehydration. A continual commitment to such sex can lead permanent poverty. If the Christian is not evacuated out of faith, his life is not guaranteed, untimely death is next door. This kind of extreme conflict is not exempted even in legal marriage. Most comfort addict cultist prefers marrying followers of Jesus because of the simplicity of the attitude and rule of moral principle we are given by faith. Integrity does not exist in occult but yet they can't do without the extended soul live. Hence, they would rather disguise to be in Christ and hypnotise a victim into legal marriage. They totally depend on their advance soul life and this secret power of sex to take sovereign control of the family.

I warn believers to beware. This is not an easy battle to overcome. This is where cultists in the Christendom are using marriage to catch their preys. Clergy men that are in cult use this 'cross breeding' soul binding strategy to match make a churchy occult agent with the real followers of Jesus in the church. If a Christian is not in the spirit, he will end up seeing himself as the weaker Christian while the holy agent is adored as the immaculate icon. This is the end time war.

A typical case study in the scripture is the story of Apostle Paul in Act 16: 16-20. The supernatural strategy of the damsel was to penetrate into the mind world of Paul through her evangelical divination tactics. But Paul with divinely initiated sense of suspicion detected the false signal and reacted spiritually decisively. But Solomon's addiction to universal comfort of sex killed his faculty of suspicion till the spirit of his mind, the main fountain of wisdom, was passionately kidnapped out of the part of integrity where the words of wisdom flows through into the world from above (1 Kg 11:3).

The focus of the damsel, a typical agent of the principals, was on the spirit of the mind of Paul. If in the mindset of Paul, she was incepted, even without any vessel or physical response, the gate of the spirit system of the Apostle would open and easily, in the spirit she would penetrate and be directly operating on the spirit of Paul till she would get him down. Thank God for the grace of suspicion.

But Solomon was sold out by passion for assorted sex. He lost caution of his spiritual security. His majesty and great physical honour bestowed on him blindfolded him. Gradually, the inspiration of his integrity depreciated, like loss of calories in the physical system, he depreciated and the spirit of his mind was derailed out of the truth and his sense of understanding was inverted. Passion slayed him in the spirit and the idol worshippers among whom would be witches, sorcerers etc made up the larger number of the occupants of his heart. The so called God took over took over the control. They used his spirit as the want against the counsel of his God. Indeed,

1 Tim 5:6

But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.

Poverty and sex with a witch, wizard or any of the cultists is like identical inseparable twins.

ALCOHOL AND SEX

In human being there is a great different between the brain and the mind. For personal destiny security purpose, you must keep to these two rules. You must always be in full logical control of yourself.

You must aggressively maintain an inseparable condition between the spirit of your mind and integrity of the heart. This is how to lock your destiny in overwhelming secured psycho spiritual territory that occult forces cannot break.

Matt 7:24-27 says,

"Therefore whoever hears these sayings of Mine, and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock: and the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house; and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock.

But everyone who hears these sayings of Mine, and does not do them, will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand: and the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house; and it fell. And great was its fall."

The effect of alcohol in the system is to intoxicates or boost the morale. If an individual has perfect understanding about the spirit of the mind, I strongly believe, to love oneself will be an automatically accomplished goal. Everybody loves himself. But the direction of the application of love varies. Some believes they love themselves and they really have to enjoy their lives, but if they understand that by intoxicating their system, the spirit of the mind is been dedicated to external control in the spirit, they will surely prefer to be realistic.

For personal supernatural security purpose, the first thing you take cognizance of about yourself is your mind. I don't mean the faculty in the brain, I mean your spirit. The supernatural effect of alcohol is to terminate the logical link between the spirit and the art of integrity which from foundation of life is the path that leads to all goodness of God created in everyone's live.

The spirit of the mind is like the gate keeper of a 'fenced treasure land' (the perceptive paradise). The wealth God deposited in the life of everyone is as much as the volume of diamond in each star. You are created by spirit (Jn. 4:24) in the likeness. Hence, you are a spirit. The principle of logical reasoning is God's fundamental rules for man's self governance.

If your lifestyle is built on the premises of Christ, the path of supernatural resources you are sailing through is indescribably immeasurably. Real life is in the mind world, that is where we can encounter Jesus. The physical building called church is just a centre for joint congregational worship. To acquire every wealth of life, you need your spirit and active link to your logical system. This is the path of your destiny. Alcohol may boost the body morale but the more intoxicated you are the weaker, your access to integrity.

Integrity in the spirit is the evidence of your voluntary commitment to Jesus. This is compared to the use of formula in Mathematics (or any other subject) once the formula is known, by applying it, the result is guaranteed. Mind (the spirit) is the one that controls the body. In the spirit system, information is directly linked to the spirit of the mind. This is what we discover when we reason. It is like lens of a compact disc player. For you to have access to spiritually positive information, (which is the actual base of divine wealth) the secret of integrity in the spirit and the strategy of logical access must be well archive.

In short, I mean the acquisition of clean wealth is directly attached to the status of the spirit of the mind. Engaging the same mind with intoxicant like alcohol or drug is to naturally terminate the logical secret of the grace in the spirit. As a matter of fact, the spirit automatically become a slave to demons and associate spiritual enemies like the household enemies who monitor the spirit.

For such individual with unsecured spirit system to engage in sex is a self imposed multiple calamities. Obvious, the chemical will boost his sexual efficiency. Oh, babes may hunt more for the actions. But check the content of the head. All the supernatural resources God deposited in the live of every human being must have been stolen away. Hence, definitely without engaging in crime, especially spiritual crime, such person cannot have access to breakthrough. This is what makes secret cult as indispensable to millions or billions of souls. Spiritual crimes are those things fundamental cultists used to do in the spirit realm against the luck of their targets, like stealing of the good luck of a victim, using the star of some else etc. The Bible says in Matt 13:25 that:

but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat and went his way.

Alcohol or any intoxicant derails the mind from the supernatural path of integrity, sex activates the soul. The end result is cult. Once the mind is negated, sex launches the soul in the spirit to the evil lane. The comfort addict might not realise this. Once the system is spiritualised negatively, it is a naturally irreversible action.

Sex is too spiritual. It is practically possible for the spirit of a human being to move from his mind world into the spirit system of another person. This is where the spirit of the mind acts as gate keeper. Alcohol assassinates the spirit, the sex opens the gate for enemies to invade, capture and subdue the weak intoxicated spirit.

Under the influence of alcohol, the spirit of the mind of the alcoholic individual can be apprehended and bind in prison of the occult without suspicion. He can be made to be addicted to that sex and alcohol.

Prov. 23:27-35

For a harlot is a deep pit,

And a seductress is a narrow well.

She also lies in wait as for a victim,

And increases the unfaithful among men.

Who has woe?

Who has sorrow?

Who has contentions?

Who has complaints?

Who has wounds without cause?

Who has redness of eyes?

Those who linger long at the wine,

Those who go in search of mixed wine.

Do not look on the wine when it is red,

When it sparkles in the cup,

When it swirls around smoothly;

At the last it bites like a serpent,

And stings like a viper.

Your eyes will see strange things,

And your heart will utter perverse things.

Yes, you will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea,

Or like one who lies at the top of the mast, saying:

"They have struck me, but I was not hurt;

They have beaten me, but I did not feel it.

When shall I awake, that I may seek another drink?"

The supernatural good luck that can manifest to breakthrough can be conveniently stolen irredeemably if it doesn't have access to Christ, the great redeemer.

Hence, to maximize your destiny security, stay away from any intoxicant and sexual immorality. The intoxicant is not restricted to alcohol alone, cigarette, cocaine, helm, heroine etc, are all destiny assassin. Prefer to be simple, and God will elevate you.

There is one intoxicant I always use. It is just free and always accessible. No intoxicant can boast me like my morale boaster. It is all efficient and no side effect. I suggest you also get addicted to it. There is no intoxicant as strong as FAITH. I am an incurable addict of this 'drug,' try it. Total trust drives beyond the apex. Cast all your care upon the Lord, He shall sustain you.

I also want you fellow brethren and sisters in Christ to understand. God's great plan for your sexual pleasure is His voluntary primary will. He said to Adam in Gen 2:18

"It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him."

It was God that willingly discovers the need for togetherness. In the spirit, the inspiration of sexual feeling is far more than what can be restricted to the function of prostate gland. It is a great supernatural inspiration meant for two souls' inseparable binding. Don't bind your soul with cultist if you don't want to ruin your entire life.

In the occult, they use the feeling to capture the spirit. Sex is a great desirable pleasure. But as scripture say in Eccl. 3 there is time for everything under heaven. Follow the rules and you shall never have a moment of sorrow.

**SYMPTOMS OF OCCULTISM.**

The Bible says in Matt 7:16-20 that

You will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Therefore by their fruits you will know them.

Once in the past, I was an advocate of predestination in marriage. But you have to understand that God gives you absolute right and responsibility to administer your destiny. Satan likes to lock up Christians in a tight corner where there will not be an escape route for him or her. In the kingdom of darkness, the subject of marriage is a very great task for them. Remember the Bible says in John 10:10 that:

The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.

The fundamental rule of God is that you marry a fellow Christian. As a visioner, I have seen a case where a churchy Christian lady was discovered to be a district queen of a physical vicinity in the spirit realm. The kingdom of darkness grows faster in population. The only obstacle to satan's total global captivity of the world are the Christians. Matchmaking a Christian with an agent is a confirmed program in the occult world. Please, please and please, be watchful.

Needless to stress, it is obvious that a dedicated follower of Jesus will not entangle his destiny with a non Christian. But how will you identify an agent of darkness within Christendom? Answer to this question is not as simple or as literal as you may think. They possess all forms of Christianity even much more than the dedicated followers. This is where you must learn to stand your ground. The Bible strictly appoints a Christian father to approve the marital choice of his child.

Deut 7:3-4

Nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son. For they will turn your sons away from following Me, to serve other gods; so the anger of the Lord will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly.

The irony of life is that a lot of Christians in the church are just churchy but not in Christ. A lot have been initiated hence, possessing the forms of the principal agent. But from survey, it is discovered that they exist largely in two extremes. It is either they are over holy or under holy; they are either over spiritual or under spiritual; they are either over righteous or otherwise. Whichever way, the scripture says in find out all things.

Stages of growth in Christianity are fundamental. The foundation was laid by the Lord Jesus Christ. John the Baptist preached and baptise. Jesus Christ came as a product of the ministry of John. This symbolises that whoever will be in Christ must get the link through anointed chosen preacher of the word. After the water baptism, on the spot, Holy Spirit came upon Him. And this fulfils the three stages of transformation process signifying what we all have to go through.

In some Christian organisations, diverse things lead to the process of development of Christians in the church. The case has gone worse that people are ready to purchase anointing just for the sake of title, and unlike the days of the apostles in Act 8:18-20 where Peter declare to bar Jesus, "thy money perish with thee", sellers are ready to pick the cash in the form of seed sown into elders' ministry. This is the gateway of the agents into the upper room of the church.

**THE SECRET SUPENATURAL WORLD**

In 1996, the Lord Jesus rescued me from a form of initiation. I've gone through different trials of initiation into fundamental cult, at least, since 1982. The Lord gave me victory. In this kind of initiation, none ever occur physically, occult world is a secret supernatural world.

In this year 1996, I was at Osu via Ilesa, in Osun State lonely and idle I was as I learnt cocoa produce business. The need for a lady came upon me. I would live the house to meet a proposed friend I had earlier arranged an appointment with only to get there and be 'dump'. Could it be inferiority complex as a result of financial situation? I asked myself. Absolutely not. Could it be because of fear of not sinning against Jesus? No. I was personally interested. Then why? I would retire and revisit again with much prepared state of mind, yet the same state would repeat itself.

This funny embarrassment occurred more than once with each of the three ladies I attempted to have an affair with. At the end I was forced me to stay back. One afternoon I lay down on a long chair in my cousin's house where I stayed and began to wonder about the scenario. It bordered me. Ability to woo a woman was not my problem, I knew myself. So why? Immediately, the spirit of God opened my eyes to see a vision. The whole matter was explained to me in a revelation. I never knew I could be greatly loved by Jesus like that even when I ignore Him in my pleasure desire. I saw myself in a dry pit. The pit was not too deep, probably about 20ft. The world where the pit was dug was a different supernatural world whose earth was plane without grass and was purely red clay soil. The day was bright like early morning brightness without the heat of the sun. I felt within me, the light in that world induced sexual feeling. Response to sexual demand became irresistible the moment the 'solar energy' falls directly upon one's head. If the light fall on my head as I was in the pit, it would have generated absorption force that would have absorbed me up to the surface of the earth in that world. This was another initiation strategy. Sexual immorality would have been successful begotten in me but a grace of God interrupted the evil solar radiation. I saw a big wooden cross placed across the pit. Instead of having the sunlight fall directly on my head, it was the shadow of the cross that fell on me. The effect of the shadow was the physical obstruction that hindered me from talking when I attempted to woo the ladies.

I so much thanked Jesus when I saw this. The move for carnal pleasure would have lead to my initiation into a separate supernatural world of sexual immorality where the illumination there is simply great sexual feeling. Yes indeed, it is real. 'Obey your feelings,' some people often say. But the root of the feeling is not understood just as natural as we have the feeling of conscience which leads in the spirit to a greater light through faith in Christ Jesus, so also the evil feeling of sex is created by Satan exists to direct the world into his kingdom.

In the supernatural I saw, I found a great explanation for the reason why some human being will comfortable display the nakedness of their anatomy against the impressed principle of normal human moral ethics. Definitely, they have been captured into the evil world where sexual disgust is the order of the day. To the captive of this evil sex world, those who are not like them are termed 'naïve'. To be trapped into this evil world is as easy as obeying your feeling. But evaluate the integrity of the feeling that is obeyed, you will notice that it is negative. When feelings antagonise fidelity, watch your ways, be disobedient to satanic impulse.

If you do not consciously safeguard and sustain your fidelity, even in if your spouse is the most beautiful or the most handsome in the whole world, desire for another sexual comfort might not far from the feeling. This feeling come from the evil world and it is a natural evil driver into occult planet.

1 Cor. 7:2 says

" _Never the less to avoid fornication, let every man has his own wife..."_

Prov. 18:22 says

" _He who finds a wife finds a good thing, And obtains favour from the Lord."_

Prov. 16:32 also says,

" _He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, And he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city."_

Let me reframe 1 Cor. 7:2.

To avoid been initiated into cult through immoral desire, find a woman.

And he that finds a woman of integrity in Christ Jesus obtains favour of divine fellowshipping.

When Adam and Eve were Godly in the Garden of Eden before eating the evil fruit, God always fellowshipped with them.

And after finding a Godly spouse, keep yourself under control. That is the way to be stronger than the principals of the world that are in high places of the world that depend on your weaknesses to capture your spirit. Remember the Bible says, "The whole world lie in wickedness." (1 Jn. 5:19) But you can be stronger than the strongest evil team and avert all the traps and baits of darkness. Sexual immorality is a reliable tool in the occult for captivity, resist initiation.

**CALAMITIES ASSOCIATED WITH SEX**

Well, am not a medical expert, so I have nothing to say about STD., if need be to compare and contrast the spiritual calamity associated with sex and sexual transmitted disease then it will be discovered that HIV is much more better than several spiritually acquired Sexual calamities (SASC).

Well I know quite well that the calamities are not in all cases restricted to male, some are largely against believers in Christ Jesus. I have heard in few occasions where a male member of fundamental cult is looking for a born again Christian lady to marry. This is extreme secret wickedness. What does he want to do with the innocent spirit of a tender 'lamb'? The strange evil I found on earth concerning marriage is that these evil souls have secret supernatural sightening feature that makes it very easy for them to identify and locate the righteous souls more easily than a fellow believer would do. If such enemy finally find the Christian spouse he desires, he will eventually frustrate the inspiration of faith out of her and 'customize' her to a fellow cultist. All these deformation may not have a trace in the physical. The funny scenario that might occupy the physical might be a reverse story. The guy might begin to attend church with her. Be conversant with current state of evil in the world. Most church founders belong to various fundamental cults. So don't be hypnotized. Church attending in some cases is not necessarily soul transformation from darkness into marvellous light. This is perilous time combat (2 Tim 3) Satan knows he had a little time. (Rev. 12:12).

Everything an individual will be on earth is embedded in the state of the spirit of the mind. The man whose star shines and the one whose star is buried by the enemy are determined by the supernatural state of the mind. Poverty and wealth are directly determined by the spirit of the mind. That is why all occult war are converged directly on attacking the spirit of the mind. The same head (the spirit of the mind) that carries divine purpose is the same one that lies on sex ground. The state of the spirit of a divine purpose carrier automatically irritates them in the kingdom of darkness. If such Christian engages in sex with an agent of darkness, he or she must know for sure that the luck he or she is exposing for occult evacuation is unquantifiable much more than the carnal pleasure he or she can't resist.

**Mind Locking**

Mind locking or mind entangling is one of the most common sex calamities. Among other things, there are two principal things followers of Jesus must know vividly: the secret of the spirit of the mind and the comprehensive details of integrity of the heart. If you don't understand these two things you won't understand the principle, the purpose and the nature of divine constitution. The necessity for full focus and the ease at which you can enjoy your narrow way Christian life might be intermittently trial by lack of contentment.

Mind locking occurs when a weak individual or a backsliding Christian engage in sex with a fundamental cultist. Well, this is not the only way mind locking attack is launched, it is just like the most significant. This is done by caging the spirit of the mind. Fundamental cultist: Briefly let me explain the different between fundamental cultist and the open cultist. A typical member of open cult group may not have been activated in the soul to possess a soul mobility feature, but eventually, as long as he remains a member, he will certainly be. They meet in isolated places in the physical and can be tracked and arrested by the police. But fundamental cultists are the main cult group that makes up virtually over 70-80% of the world population. They make up what the Bible refers to as the beasts and their worshippers (Rev. 13, 14.) They have their world in the soul kingdom and they don't have multilingual problem neither are they in need of civilization. More about this is written in my book the beast and its number 666.

Note that whatever you are doing perceptively is the exert thing your spirit is doing. As a matter of fact, that mind that is functioning precisely is you, your spirit. When that mind tends to move out of the way of Christ to, those that have been activated in the spirit into the evil world see directly and know that he or she is coming. They can entangle the mind in the spirit without the consciousness of the falling Christian, just as children joyously run to meet their beloved parent.

Mind locking can be caused in many ways. It is a dynamic strategy of the fundamental cultist to establish poverty in the life of their prey. Moreover, they do that also to keep the spirit of their prey where his or her heavenly created good luck can be accessed and utilized by the enemy. In the case, the inspiration of the luck of the prey will be continually sucked out spiritually and the spiritual enemy will be taking it in the spirit. In the physical, the prey will be get poorer while the enemy will be prospering. The worst evil i found on the case is that these wicked souls are not exempted among the so called 'Holy Spirit filled tongue speaking born again'.

This is where the secret of combat sex is hidden. Whether one's soul is activated or not, whether one is spiritual or not, get the fact clear, sex is spiritual. The physical body is just regalia of the soul. The main person functioning in the body is the soul that we do not see. And that is where the sexual feeling is converged as inspiration. Commitment is the release of the spirit (the 3rd of human trinity) in the direction of commitment. Those agents with activated souls are skilled to function fully in the body and fully in the soul differently simultaneously. So a skilled occult agent will drive the physical body to activate sexual mood but the real commitment is targeted on getting the spirit. A man that cannot rule himself is a slave on the field of passion. When supernatural predators like this want to capture the spirit, they withdraw their soul from the body. The man that is sexing is sexing in the flesh but in the spirit, he is doing nothing but mere press up. Once he is the one that consciously go for the game, the law of agreement holds. 1 Jn. 3:8 says

Whoever sin belong to the devil.

As long as he is not spiritually sensitive enough to avert the evil, the luck suckers are ready to sell the body to be in custody of the spirit, the base of good luck. If one is locked in the prison of the enemy through this evil and then get initiated (which will definitely occur to permanently preserve the prey in custody) the rescue can only be done externally. The initiation has locked the power of his will in the negative kingdom, he can never perceive positively. Crime becomes the only way to survive, at best, logical crime like lying, hypnotising etc.

This kind of evil is not exempted in marriages. This is the major reason where the agents are trained to marry Christian. They will continuously gain access to the Christian perceptive paradise and work against his or her luck. The effect of soulless sex, in this case is to deactivate his spiritual system and evacuate the inspiration of life in the Christian. Once he is 'reduced to ordinary human being, but cross over to occult side needs to former notice, subconsciously, the work can be done. If you have relationship with someone that is in the occult (negatively activated souls) you can't have access to their soul system unless they initiate you to their side unless the Christian is stronger in the supernatural. This case of spiritually superior Christian is extremely rare. They are at the advantage of having activated souls. They have supernatural sources of logistics. They pretend to be tender in the physical, the majesty and the growth of the soul never follow the physical pattern, and they have the attribute of evil angels in their soul system.

**PREVENTION IS THE BEST CURE.**

Once a Christian steps out of the truth, his right to victory is deprived (1 Jn. 3:8). Those initiated souls operate permanently 244/7 in the soul & spirit realm. (These are the two different supernatural levels). That is why the scripture tells us that we wrestle not against the flesh (Eph. 6:12). Mind is the luck carrier. The path where all good luck is located is what Isaiah 35 refers to as the way Holiness. That is what I refer to as integrity of the heart in Christ Jesus. All fundamental cultists are automated to destroy any thing that has to do with this path. Sex entanglement is a secret way of passionately destroying the Christian that falls to the trap. Prov. 7:25-27 says,

Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways,

Do not stray into her paths;

For she has cast down many wounded,

And all who were slain by her were strong men.

Her house is the way to hell,

Descending to the chambers of death.

As the physical body enjoys the carnal comfort, the spirit is arrested and led to occult prison without his awareness. The first thing they will do is to evacuate the word of God in his memory. Once memory evacuation is done, the next thing is to initiate. All these process can take as short as a night of comfort. But if the Christian is not consciously backsliding, in marital issue for instance, where the Christian does not know nor consciously entangle himself or herself with the enemy in disguise, his or her genuine commitment to Jesus upholds his or her spirit in the truth and acts as a shield but it is a fragile case. This case is often among real Christians, it is a secret problem initiated by satan to destroy Christian generation.

Frequent sex is dangerous in this scenario as long as the real identity of the agent is still hidden, the mindset of the target is misled. Every art of ignorance is a loophole and operational channel of the enemies. They will reinforce in the spirit to make sure the victim never know the true identity of the agent. This is a big war. I say again, STAY OFF. Memory evacuation cannot be completely done as long as he is not consciously sinning in the spirit, though he can experience partial evacuation of gospel content of his memory, especially, if spiritual slothfulness or recession is taking up his Christian integrity. Until he is willingly out of the way of holiness, he cannot be 'kidnapped' out neither can the initiation be done until truth is killed in him.

Paul says in 1 Cor. 7:15 and 16 that,

But if the unbeliever departs, let him depart; a brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace. For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?

Though they have the faster advantage of soul activation and direct relationship with the soul and spirit of one another and with that of their targeted prey, their limitation is in the total lack of the principle and power of integrity. Integrity in the spirit is the primary supernatural power that keeps power of darkness far below the altitude of the power of light. And this is the first thing we acquire in Christ by the grace of faith.

1 John 4:4

You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world.

A prey that is trapped, though in the physical realm, he or she is a human being, in the spirit, he or she may end up to be a fowl kept and fed in a supernatural cage. The good luck embedded in the spirit of the prey ends up to be the 'spoil', the great gain of the evil doer. This evil is a broad route to poverty. This is where some are captured and initiated not for them to prosper but to be inescapable captives. Once the initiation is done, he can never love the truth nor access the path. Rom 6:16 says

Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one's slaves whom you obey, whether of sin leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness?

Sex is not a pleasure for the blind, it is more often most dynamic, most reliable and most sophisticated weapon of occult war. Build up your heart against this evil.

SPIRIT HUSBAND AND SPIRIT WIFE

A typical individual that is not rooted in Christ either in the Christendom or among non Christians is possessed and has the supernatural capability of living a completely independent soul life beyond the physical. This is the advance secret life that the whole members of occult kingdom are auto programmed to keep secret. The effect of soul life boosts the power of their brain and they are able to live a super human life. It is a free world of evil comfort. Inspiration of seduction is not in the gland, their soul life rules the mortar life of the flesh which is used as a shield for the activated soul. Just as wearing of clothes shield our body.

Many souls that are activated negatively into the evil would are also engage in supernatural affair.

I saw a woman in a vision many years ago. She is married to a spirit husband with about nine children in the evil realm.

The misery of spiritual marriage is to preoccupy the faculty of love. Real life is executed in the soul system. The same soul that contains the affection needed by human spouse is already engaged with inner affair.

The secretion of the pleasure gland in the prostate gland is just a mere blindfold. The real pleasure of sex occurs in soul excitement. But the super boost sex pleasure enjoyed in the soul with spirit husband or wife where prostate gland never exist is incomparably higher than mere gland activated pleasure in the flesh. Hence, the human spouse of spirit spouse is unreliably dedicated to the super sexual comfort of the immortal body. This makes the physical spouse to be just mere tool of life fulfilment to be called Mr. or Mrs. and to wear the wedding ring is indeed a cherished honoured, but the real commitment goes to where strongest pleasure comes.

This problem can lead to much domestic conflict with outer spouse untimely death of the outer spouse is not exempted from likely evil that can manifest. Sexually sterility is largely connected to this evil. An individual that is constantly sexually over satisfied in the supernatural can live with little or no sexual urge in the physical. Though genuinely, circumstanced like distress and mindset adjustment can as well physically cause sexual sterility but this spiritual evil sex is an incurred secret marriage demolition 'comfort'. It is an infliction that is invading the 'sacred world' of modern holiness Christian. It is confirmed in diverse revelations that soul sex can make an occult agent in the Christendom to stay undetectably 'righteous' even more than genuine followers of Jesus, the war is intense, they live for it.

**THE REAL SERVICE OF HELP MEET.**

The perfect comfort of sex exists where love is genuine and spiritual. If there is genuine heart commitment and there is no barrier obstructing the spirit of the mind. Sex where there is perfect love is stronger that the strongest initiation. This active spiritual junction in sex is where Satan loads up with high level stress. The real comfort of sex is for those that are plain in the spirit. Christians are the only set of souls that can rise to this altitude, but most Christians lack real understanding of the reality of the supernatural.

The scripture says, in Rev. 13:

even the elects (the genuine Christians) are deceived.

From my finding, a lot of our leaders in Christendom belong to fundamental cult. For their personality security purpose among other evil reasons, if a Christian under their leadership is not initiated, he will face great tribulation. As I have explained earlier, this is where intra-denominational marriage is often used to 'clip' the soul system of the 'stubborn' follower of Jesus.

Sex is a strong soul booster, but without dual honesty, it is a disaster. Where there is no true love, sex is a violation of comfort. If I was God, I would write in the scripture, where there is not love sex is sin even in marriage. Indeed, it is. (But hey, I don't add to the word of God, the daily evil is enough for it. I don't need to add to my trouble. Rev. 22:18.) This is where cultists use it as tool of domination. Sex boosts the soul and spirit of partners. It is the strongest natural bond that can bind two souls without charm. But to access the full comfort of sex, the rules of the Architect of the affairs, the most high God, must be followed to the letter.

Love does not exist where there is no integrity. Natural integrity outside Jesus Christ is lifeless; it does not possess supernatural inspiration (which is faith in Christ), occult forces can easily frustrate the plain spirit to early grave. Faith in Christ Jesus is the strength and lives of integrity. Hence, to enjoy erotic love, Agape is prerequisite; otherwise, it will be hijacked by the occult that makes up the world. Faith in Christ shields integrity which in turn, host securely, the erotic love that positively bond and activate the souls.

If you genuinely love your destiny and you don't want to be ruined, rather maintain mere godly friendship than to desire evil sex for carnal comfort that is greatly destructive to your soul, even now on earth.

Love is sacred. You cannot create it or destroy it. You can only achieve it if you belong to his dominion. Where there is no love, pleasure (of sex) is poison of adder. As it is in medical world, do souls check-up regularly. Come to Jesus, it is never late.

Eve was created into the garden and was called help meet before she ate the fruit. But she ate the fruit and was dead in the spirit. To render the destined service of help meet, she must be alive. To live again, she needs to eat the fruit of life. This is what Jesus Christ transplanted from the Garden of Eden to the cross of Calvary that

_And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life._ (John 3:14-15)

The full responsibility of help meet is not really on the financial supportive ground. God almighty provided all their needs in terms of food and shelter in the garden. To succeed as help meet is to always be sexually available positively. That is why they were both created 100% naked. And Paul said in 1 Cor. 7:4 that,

The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. And likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.

Sex easily integrates souls to the spirit world of their prevailing deity. If both of them are genuinely in Christ (which is the fundamental will of God), sex activates their souls and bond them closer together in the spirit. This is where a unified Christian family is stronger than the network of all occult societies worldwide.

The Bible says in Matt 18:18-20,

"Assuredly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.

Again I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, it will be done for them by My Father in heaven."

But if any of them previously belong to darkness, he or she will rather labour for initiation (negative soul activation) of the Christian than for him or her to experience true life in the spirit. This supernatural field of understanding is where followers of Jesus are lagging behind. A negatively activated spouse will rather kill the spirit of if he or she cannot be initiated into the evil world. This is where marriage is either full cult (where both parties are negatively activated) or base of occult bondage (where one is negatively activated or initiated.)

I urge fellow Christian to be greatly watchful. Fundamental cultists have almost completely hijacked the Christendom. Individualism is the only provable reality in Christendom, denominationalism has failed Jesus. Most preachers preach for personal gain. The scripture speaks about end time miseries in the midst of congregation (1 Tim 3.)

There are several agents of darkness in the church that have Christianised powers of darkness they inherit from their foundations. Grow in divine wisdom and in the spirit of God through learning from the scripture (2 Tim. 2:15); through spiritual perception (Ps. 1:1-6) and through prayer (Ps. 23). Ask God for the promised...

Luke 11:9-13

"So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. If a son asks for bread from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!"

...He is God that can never stand against His word, he promise and He will fulfil it.

The function of Holy Spirit in heavenly justified affair is enormous:

He is a comforter: John 14:15-18

If ye love me, keep my commandments.

And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever;

Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.

I will not leave you comfortless:

He is the supernatural eye opener: The Bible says in Acts 2:17

Your sons and daughters will prophesy,

your young men will see visions,

your old men will dream dreams.

He will remind you all things: John 14:26

But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name **, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance** , whatsoever I have said unto you.

If a relationship is established on the platform of the great promise above, what on earth can be greater than the gracious comfort garnished and shielded with the Holy Ghost? Tell me, if you know.

If a Christian couple strive and endure to be lifted up to the platform of Holy Spirit before the conjugal bliss, oh my God, what a heavenly comfort in the private paradise of passion. But the greatest problem i discover in Christendom is that supernatural impersonators have filled the space pretending to be filled with the Holy Ghost. This is an extremely sensitive junction of your destiny that you must not gamble with. CULT IS INDESCRIBABLY RAMPANT IN THE CHURCH. They understand the supernatural secret of togetherness in Christ, their mission is to block the light, I mean your destiny. Please help yourself, don't fall to the trap. The comforter has promised not to live you alone, don't live Him alone too.

If a relationship is constructed successfully on this great platform, and both parties are genuinely filled with the Holy Spirit, the union is the best and the strongest union with full heavenly backup, indeed they are the head and not the tail.

Sex in this well established union is a great supernatural enhancing asset in the family that they must not underutilised. (PLS NOTE ONE GREAT FACT, A LOT OF CHRISTIANS ARE SELF-DECEIVERS DISGUISING TO BE FILLED WITH HOLY GHOST WHERE AS THEY KNOW THEIR STATUS IN THE PROFILE OF THE OCCULT UNION. FOLLOWERS OF JESUS, BE WATCHFUL; THIS IS AN EXTREME WARNING FOR YOUR OWN GOOD.)

The spirit of the mind is the base of information and the operator of the governing principle of an individual. The state of the spirit of the mind is also the identifier of the actual God/god of an individual. If this foundation is perfect in a couple, their unity is not based on erotic agreement, it is the resultant benefit of the impact of their individual soul commitment with their Supreme Deity.

Soul is the base of affection. As their spirits are compatible as a result of unified Deity, spiritual sense of security is satisfied. Subconscious trust is bound to be even though the scripture declared

Thou shall not trust in your neighbour"

This spiritual sense of security in both parties in the passionate world encapsulated by their faith, integrity and Holy Spirit leads to total commitment. Commitment is the release of the spirit of the mind in the distinct path of the individual's conception. This mind super compatibility is the requirement that brings about soul release and engagement that activates and greatly enhances the comfort of sex in heavenly justified erotic territories.

Real comfort of sex is not for the pagans. It is highly soul engaging. Supernatural integrity is just an indispensable prerequisite. But to find a compatible colleague is the greatest conflict in the deal. Cult as captured the church. Most significant thing going on in the church is largely money. Every doctrine, policy or anointing in the Christian organisation seem to revolve around money issue. And to enhance the money making strategy, full super back up is needed.

I wish greatly that all can be gifted to see vision, then you will know that it is only the fainting grace that is left and it is in coma.

Real sexual comfort is soul engaging, that is why it is tagged "soul to soul." If two compatible mind come together passionately, and the base of the seductive grace is unlocked, whao, their soul togetherness activate and boosts their supernatural system. This is a secret gateway into high level private supernatural paradise of comfort. The only wise principle they must sustain is the first law: Gen 2:15-17

Then the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to tend and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die."

2 Peter 2:20-22 says,

For if, after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them and overcome, the latter end is worse for them than the beginning. 21 For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than having known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered to them.

If you trigger your passionate commitment as a result of your view of the seductive structure of the visible anatomy, honestly speaking, no suicide mission is worse than this. If you really mean to build an everlasting castle of comfort, start from the most extreme supernatural.

In the barest minimum, seven out of every ten human, even in the so called Bible believing church have been negatively activated into the evil world. If Holy Ghost makes you to see vision, then the typical youth will successful avert 'bait of darkness' among the marriable partners he or she encounter daily. So fellow Christian, what are you waiting for? Ask till your joy is full. Ask Jesus to fill you up daily with the Holy Ghost. And when Holy Spirit comes unto you,

  * He will remind you all things. (John 14:26)

  * You shall receive power. (Act 3:19)

**THREE STATES OF MARRIAGE**

There are three different conditions a matrimonial home can be. It can either be total light, total darkness or crippled reality. The scarcest of all these states is the first condition

We shall discuss them one after the other. The secret of sex will be further detailed in each one of them. Read on.

**Total Light**

This was initiated on what I refer to as Edenic condition.

What is endemic foundation? Whether it is called Edenic foundation or Edenic standard, understand my plight. This is a condition whereby the couple are genuinely in Christ Jesus. In the Garden of Eden, there is only one father, father in-law, godfather, life provider, counsellor, matchmaker, marriage committee and so on and so forth. Everything concerning togetherness was done in the absence of Satan. Adam had no other God neither did Eve. Marriage might be conducted in the Bible believing church by the most ordained, most anointed, Holy Spirit filled men of God, if it does not have Edenic foundation, it may end up either as a supernatural combat zone or the smallest dynamic independent unit of occult zone.

The beauty of their lives; the comfort needed was already provided by God. Adam was 'employed' by God and given official responsibility of universal administration. His first official responsibility was supervised by God to evaluate his performance (Gen. 2:15.) Then, after evaluating his professionality, love (erotic pleasure) was introduce to him.

Sex can unlock the strongest room of their private secret, but their individual integrity extremely complements each other's success and protection. For safely precaution, under no circumstance should any of the partners launch total trust on his or her lover. As a divine rule, all trust must be cast on Jesus alone (1Pet. 5:7.) Rather strengthen your spouse's fidelity with your full commitment than to expect an ideal icon.

I have a broad supernatural survey of Christian lives universally. It is extremely rare to see a genuine Christian that has access to the information about the supernatural state of affairs. Christian don't see human live beyond the uprightness of physical attitude. This is the reasons why we are always at the defensive end of the supernatural war. The enemies that attacked us are also human being. Most of them were begotten as normal human being but later get initiated into the occult with the soul negative activation and integration to the kingdom of darkness. This opens their eyes to the advance phase of human kingdom and the ease of rulership through the spirit. Hence, they attack the spirit person of human being but we feel the attack in physical and struggle to counter attack from the physical with little effort to the dynamic Christianized activation of the soul and spirit.

They have discovered this weak point in Christendom and are aggressively fencing the positive human into the nucleus of carnal reality. Life is in the supernatural. This secret is what I expected most from the successful leaders in the Christendom to enlighten the followers with. The best prayer war you can fight from the physical is continuous resistance. To acquire permanent victory, our spirit must rise in the supernatural to subdue and dominate. Very fortunately, the primary universal weapon of victory in all war is equity (which means: right, justice or truth as you may call it.) In all occult weapons, this is the only missing tool. This is the only reason why they have not physically captured the world. The king of heaven uses the power of light created in Gen. 1:3 (which we feel as conscience) to shield the world. In the supernatural, the evil souls possess all what they require to capture the world but are void of required integrity.

I seem to be digressing from the focus of this book, but not withstanding, it is part of the necessities. Most leaders in Christendom are negatively activated. They can perform great miracles with powers that are presented as Holy Ghost power but, evaluates their marriage if they ever expose the secret of the supernatural. The best gospel is morally justified. Yes it's ok, but occult advances have almost totally captured the Christendom and preachers technically bypass this extremely sensitive faculty. The real followers of Jesus are the feeble icon of Christianized moral in the society exposed to diverse war from the monitoring forces of darkness.

If two genuine Christian successfully discovered them, their union is extreme treat to the sovereignty of the forces of darkness. Please, take note that, in the holiest church, seven out of every ten member have active soul system operating secretly under the cover of the carnal body. We all have human nature and can equally physically respond positively to the scripture. The negative folks in the church cut across all phases of Christendom not excepting even t he founders of Christian organizations.

Hence, total light couple may not be spiritually treat to each other, but external enemies know the impact of the diverse supernatural resources that are potentially available in the midst them. They will work restlessly at the 'other side' of life (I mean the evil world) to penetrate their midst and disunite them just as Adam and Eve were disunited. The fall of one affects the other, but the resistance of the upright can raise the fallen partner.

Among other supernatural resources they have amidst them are:

  1. Peace of the mind (Jn. 14:27);

  2. The grace of financial breakthrough even if they start poor (Prov. 18:22.)

  3. Comfort of the safest, the most pleasant secured Edenic pleasure. This is the hideout of pleasure in Christian marriage. (Prov. 10:22; Prov. 18:22)

  4. The privilege to have a highly spiritual and righteous union (Matt. 18:19);

  5. This is the channel of divinely ordained covenant children (Ps 128:3).

Whoever is infidel definitely cannot escape the trap of the evil ones (1 Jn. 3:8). The calamities associated with sexual immorality is either absconded by abstaining from it or confronted with occult back up which can't yields any solution but drives them into deeper pit.

Matt 12:26-27

If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.

In the perfect light state, pleasure of sex is most secured and most spiritually beneficial. To maximize the soul binding pleasure of sex, I appeal to couple and couple-to-be never to gamble with their supernatural integrity in Christ Jesus. This endemic comfort is created by God for soul activation and binding. Note one thing: If you are not in Christ Jesus, domestic morally inclined sexual life does not transform to Christliness. Most other religions have their moral values too but it doesn't lead to eternity. The Bible says in John 3:18

"He who believes in Him is not condemned; but he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.

And Rom 10:17 says,

So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.

So faith in Christ comes first before you can be established in the spirit.

Matt 6:33

But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you.

The spiritual ecstasy sex can drive an individual to depend on his primary spiritual status. The safest condition two Christians can be is for them never to have acquired previous immoral experience before giving their lives to Christ. If the truth is known at the right time, their destiny is safer.

Prov. 22:6

Train up a child in the way he should go, And when he is old he will not depart from it.

Power of seduction boosts the soul. When this seductive force is inductively transmitted through a passionate channel to the beloved target, the spirit is triggered. The positive response towards it commences the process of gradual activation of the soul. If the love is real and the passionate commitment is from the earth, sacred seduction at this altitude wakes up the soul and Christ in the system shield the garden against invasion of the jealous evil forces. Where there is total honestly and Christ is well established in both parties, the beauty of the life ahead is beyond expression. But a great war must be fought for a Christian couple to rise to this attitude. The supernatural level they are rising to is a great treat on the sovereignty of the occult principals; hence, the highest order of resistance is coming jointly from them all.

This is where a Yoruba adage is applied. (Eniti o ba maa jeun gboin gboin, yio ti 'lekun gboin gboin.) "Whoever will eat firmly must shot the door firmly." This Edenic standard comfort is great, but unless total war can be launched against the occult, to get the perfect rest of mind to enjoy this grace maybe a dream to be fulfilled another day. From my universal survey of the supernatural state of affair, I cannot point to a Christian couple in the world that operate at this immaculate attitude. Well, I do not say there is none, but as a researcher and visioner, I never witness one. The best I saw was families where both were Christians in the physical but in the spirit, one was into fundamental cult. This is the most common case in Christian circuits. But the Christian, the non-supernatural partner is kept in the dark. This state in Christian marriage is what I called crippled reality.

**Crippled Reality**

The great problem I discovered in Christendom is that most Christian leaders are pretentiously holy. I have been on the supernatural survey of this world for over two decades. My finding is that live in the flesh is just preamble. Most human are active in the soul world and they live an advance human live in the supernatural. In several occasions, I have engaged in night spiritual defensive war with forces of darkness who are all human being. But the life in the flesh is professionally set to shield the secret of the activated spirit and soul live. The only nubby on earth are the very few genuine Christians.

The point is that sex was created by God for both pleasure and psycho-spiritual therapeutic functions, but satan discovers the hidden secret of the comfort of passion and negates its purpose. Where ever there is no truth, sex may be felt and desired as pleasure but it is hazardous. But Satan is in no pleasure mood. The tool becomes most irresistible bait.

This is why dives institutions are established in the supernatural where possessed souls are trained on how to use the weapon of sex to activate the captives into the occult. When this occurs, a trace may never be noticed in the physical.

In most cases, the trained evil forces are transplanted out to hunt for genuine Christian. In this case, sex is turned to crippled reality. By law and Biblical principles, it is neither an offence nor a sin to engage in sex with one's legitimate spouse, but the calamity associated with it in this scenario is worse than perceived. In all cases ever surveyed, the aliens of darkness activate themselves physically as dedicated followers of Jesus.

Seductive power of sex can be so active that the spiritual faculties of the partners can be triggered. But if this occurs without killing the inspiration of life that keeps the real Christians in the spirit of the truth, the secret of the agent of darkness will be unfolded. Hence, under no circumstance will they allow the active sex to switch on the spiritual system of the Christian. Instead, sex (along with diverse frustration strategy) is used to deactivate the Christian. This particular case in legal marriage is where the Christian must learn to minimized to the most minimum, his or her demand for sex. Instead, he or she must understand the supernatural state of the spouse and think first about his or her destiny's security. If a spouse is an active cultist, though fornication or adultery is a great sin, but domestic legitimate sex is not a pleasure for the Christian. His luck is not safe.

Shun sentiment and over-spiritualization.

Amos 3:3 says Amos 3:2

"You only have I known of all the families of the earth; Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities."

Paul says further in 2 Cor. 6:14-16

Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? And what communion has light with darkness? 15 And what accord has Christ with Belial? Or what part has a believer with an unbeliever? 16 And what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. As God has said:

"I will dwell in them

And walk among them.

I will be their God,

And they shall be My people."

For a Christian to consciously agree to team up legally in conjugal oath with an agent even he or she is hypnotized, rule of agreement is bound to hold. The matrimonial home at this point is primarily a closed chimney of supernatural war.

Don't take this case for granted. The one that is an agent is active in the soul world. Unfortunately, the born-again 'brother James' or 'Sister Janet' does not see beyond the horizon of the carnal life. Once he or she sleeps, unless he or she is woken up or perhaps, a scary dream is heard, like a log of wood, he or she is gone.

The agent, like Delilah has the 'supernatural Philistine' behind the physical to complement the effort of the insider. If you are genuinely in Christ and you really love pleasure of sex; if you really love your destiny and you don't want to waste away cheaply, don't attempt sex with any one of another god. You will be spiritually evacuated without your awareness. While the process proceeds, the super-seductive power of sex will drive you to the imaginary world of pleasure. But if at the end you are not initiated into the occult, untimely death may not be far or otherwise, incurable poverty. It is only he who fined wife (a godly woman) that obtains God's favour. The one that finds agent of darkness obtains domination and captivity of the supernatural 'Philistines'. Prevent the evil, obtain favour from God and enjoy an everlasting secured pleasure meant for you. This is the patience of saint.

**Total Darkness**

This is the worst case. The book of Gen. 2:15-25 says,

And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept; and He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man He made into a woman, and He brought her to the man.

And Adam said:

"This is now bone of my bones

And flesh of my flesh;

She shall be called Woman,

Because she was taken out of Man."

Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.

And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.

Human generation started as a couple. This is the root of continuity. If both parents are in the light, their children inductively inherit a living foundation. But if both parents are in darkness, the evil is worst than we can imagine.

Without iota of doubt, at that adult age and status, their systems' activation into the negative supernatural field must have been accomplished: initiation into fundamental cult is the deadliest evil secret going on under heaven. If at certain adult age an individual adult has not given his life to Jesus and be rooted there, subconscious initiation trial (among other strategies of initiation) must have been experienced.

The secret of live is that, either to the positive or negative side of supernatural live, activation precedes success. Money making is another matter that needs full comprehensive discussion. To be successful as money maker, you must be highly spiritual. There are just two ways into it: it is either you are firmly rooted in Christ and you strive continuously to be deeper in the truth or you are deeply rooted in cult. The secret of wealth is in the spirit. This is the bone of contention. The forces of darkness are aggressively dominating the supernatural kingdom.

The world is directly under the leaderships of Deity/deity Rom. 6:16 say,

Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one's slaves whom you obey, whether of sin leading to death, or of obedience leading to righteousness?

1 John 3:8 says,

He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil.

Occultism is a global pestilence. The broadest secret supernatural organization on earth is this evil union. There are diverse ways by which the kingdom expands. Total darkness marital condition is the extreme will of the forces of darkness. This is the ultimate state they trained their agents to accomplish. Since both of them are not in the truth, their psycho-spiritual states are uniform. At this altitude, to have direct soul encounter preserves no shame to either of the parties. Without doubt, they integrate in the soul world.

This is the most active field of sex as their souls are active. It enhances the strength of their minds which reflects in their sexual performance especially the consciously initiated ones. Soul engagement is a great comfort booster. This is a dynamic tool satan uses to bastardise sexual comfort in their midst. With the activated soul, they have access to the base of the comfort. Unfortunately, they are automatically void of integrity. So they cannot have a unified relationship. Hence, random sex is rampant amidst them to satisfy the activated feeling. This is the calamity is total darkness case.

This is the deadliest zone of passion where an unbeliever may never wish to belong to Jesus if trapped in the beam of passion. The extreme comfort of passion goes beyond to the physical pleasure. It transcend into the soul world. This again, is the most active zone of the pleasure of sex where it works severely as the most extremely dynamic tool of supernatural initiation.

But the misery, unfortunately, is the deadliest at this altitude. The author of sex culture established it to be accomplished in the total light state (as explained above) but, that notorious thief; the destiny inverter and the soul killer I mean the devil come to steal, kill and destroy (Jn. 10:10) the extreme comfort that was created with full soul, spirit and body's satisfaction without any sorrows into the most dynamic and most sophisticated blindfolding weapon of darkness.

1 Tim 5:6-7

But she who lives in pleasure is dead while she lives.

The extreme power of passion at this soul active terminal can make even an active Christian to voluntarily submit himself to the captivity of the pleasure of passion. The worst calamity resides at this territory. No wonder the Lord warns in the scripture in 1 Cor. 6:18 that:

Flee sexual immorality. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body.

Do you know why Christians should flee? The reason is that the Lord created the inspiration of the pleasure in abundant and it is stored in your soul. If it is blindly activated, like tsunami, it gushes and carries souls away. So run away from ungodly passion.

I discover spiritually that, folks of darkness that are spiritually active never wish to marry fellow evil folks. They know they are void of integrity and they understand the power of the feeling. They prefer marrying ignorant Christian that is under the biblical oath of fidelity. They also know that believers are ignorant of the real secret comfort live going on in the supernatural. The evil folks live an extended live beyond the horizon of the flesh. From my survey, that is the fundamental live they live. Life in the physical is just preamble.

Understanding of metaphysics of this sexual matter among real followers of Jesus Christ is discovered to be negative. Many Christian leaders who wholly depend on occult power frustrate this extremely realistic matter and most believes are kept in the dark about the psycho-spiritual effect of passion.

But the knowledge is negatively advance in the occult region. They use it as tool of domination even in marriage. But the evil in it goes beyond just domination.

Success, in the physical is accomplished when the spirit rises. Power of passion, if not successfully resisted, is the strongest natural kidnapper of the spirit of the mind. As I've explained earlier, mind is the gate keeper of destiny's strong room. Every man's imaginative world is his real private supernatural world. Just as we have in this physical world, several minerals are embedded in the earth so also every human possess his divinely given treasures. This grace is not restricted to followers of Jesus alone. It is universal pattern God allocates his grace.

To derive your pre-birth heavenly created grace, you must be in the spirit. To gain access to the supernatural in Christ Jesus, integrity of the heart, and strong power of spiritual positive thinking are extremely indispensable. The first thing that is assassinated when negative power of passion presides is the power of integrity. Like pendulum of wall clock, the system swings to the centre dormant state. At this point the system is exposed. The gate-keeper is inactive.

The active spirit of the other partner, at this point makes direct invasion into the private supernatural world of the spiritually inactive victim of passion. All what can bring testimony for him or her ends up to be the stolen material of the passionate desperate negatively activated supernatural partner. Read my word loud and clear, there is no ungodly addict of passion that doesn't use this evil tool to rob (steal) the good luck of their preys. This is where I call evil passion, good luck evacuator. Satan uses this tool even in church wedded legal marriages.

Everybody is greatly blessing. The rebirth asset in every normal human's life is beyond his total life demand. But Satan the author of poverty uses this evil tool (among other poverty making strategy) to arrest the spirit of a victim of passion and eventually hijack all the good luck in his or her life.

This is where the evil forces use sex as active tool of soul captivity. Look around the world to survey the most universal approach to passion, you will notice that it is negative in most cases.

For two negative forces to come together as couple, the integrity required to unify the bond does not exist in their spiritual territory. Integrity, seen in the spirit as sunlight, is a created by the truth, Lord Jesus as His universal governing instrument. The art of bewitching, blindfolding, spiritual hypnotism, veiling are strategies used by negatively activated agent to ensure that no Christian gain direct access to this super fountain of blessing. For those that have been negatively activated, the art of integrity exists only in the psycho-physical region of their lives which means in human psychological terminology that the art of integrity exists only in their overt behaviour. Hence love in this circuit is just tool of sentiment.

God created sex to be the universal desire of everyman, but it is meant genuinely to be embedded in true love. True love and integrity are inseparable and they produce live. What is lagging in the spiritual structure of negative folks is strictly the power of integrity. This asset is what we get by grace in Christ Jesus. In the absence of integrity, there is no love (ero). In the absence of true love, sex is not a pleasure; it is a weapon of occult domination.

It is the inner truth that keeps God in your inner system. Once this is missing, inner darkness sets in. most Bible believing churches labour to sustain monitorable outer truth. The absence of God is imminent where there is no inner truth. Sex, where there is no truth lacks assuredly divine security.

I am more conscious of security of good luck in the approach to sex matters than to be captive of pleasure. Grow in the spirit. Understand your supernatural affair, and then you will see the secret of the hidden pleasure.

Sex and luck management are integrated with extremely high spirituality in Christ. Labour first, to be highly spiritual in Christ. Pray earnestly to be filed by the Holy Ghost.

Sexual comfort is an extremely safe and reliable pleasure I will certainly encourage you to enjoy in Christ Jesus. You must be genuine in Christ. Self deception is broad in modern Christianity. Many folks are in the church as wolf but in the regalia of lambs of God. When it comes to traceable holiness, fasting, praying and religious manifestation, indeed, they are vessels onto honour, but ask god to show you secret of modern Christianity in the supernatural, you will discover that 'sacred' evil in this generation is the worst in the history of the world

I saw a vision many years ago. God led me into the supernatural to see an evil meeting of Christian cultists comprising mainly of clergy leaders. I saw a unified cult meeting. They were all in white shirt and black trousers which denoted the physical holiness and the supernatural evil. They were all on a plain field addressed by satan who stood on a stage that looks like Benson and Hedges music concert stage. Irrespective of the denomination, Satan has established a secret means of networking his kingdom within the nooks and crannies of Christianity. So I cannot precisely say which church is cult-free that I can refer you to for dynamic spiritual uplifting. None has dynamic positive approach to fighting or resisting fundamental cult which is the principal global secret and the worst evil on the phase of the earth.

Do you really love Jesus? Then I refer you to King James Version of the Bible and your conscience. Invite Jesus into your life:

Rev. 3:20 says, Rev 3:20-22

Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with Me. To him who overcomes I will grant to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne.

He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

And grow in the word and in the spirit of the truth.

Ps. 1:1-3

Blessed is the man

Who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly,

Nor stands in the path of sinners,

Nor sits in the seat of the scornful;

But his delight is in the law of the Lord,

And in His law he meditates day and night.

He shall be like a tree

Planted by the rivers of water,

That brings forth its fruit in its season,

Whose leaf also shall not wither;

And whatever he does shall prosper.

You need a church to attend? Ask prayerfully for the leadership of the Holy Spirit. And do me a big favour; don't go to any church because of miracle, signs and wonders otherwise, the traps of the devil might be hard to detect and avert. Moreover, any church where there is no commitment to the truth, for your security reasons escape before you are chained down in the spirit. Never rush to be recognise or to become physically active. The only souls left uncaptured are those whose names are written in the book of life (Rev. 13:8), and that is you and I who are in various churches. Satan is using all doctrinary strategies to maximize his gain. He knows that his time is up (Rev. 12:12.)

Seek your partner in Christ Jesus: This is an extreme search. Match making darkness against Christian is an extreme supernatural strategy in the kingdom of darkness. Pease, understand. Be transformed to a living spirit in Christ (Rom 12:1-3), then seek your type in the spirit to obtain the trophy of divine favour.

It is an extreme search. To eventually end up with a fellow genuine Christian can simply be tagged "it is not easy". Occult forces have discovered the strategy of dream manipulation, vision manipulation, fake in-dwelling holy ghost (Note the lower case form. It is not a mistake, it is evil force version.) If truly you are in Christ, then your instinct is your guard. I say again, I speak from experience. By pass all strategy of spiritually match making you with a force of darkness. Your destiny in Christ is a disaster to them in darkness. They will risk anything to get you down. Guide yourself, be safety conscious.

Marital world is a supernatural world. Don't rush please. Help yourself to build your Eden. Quarantine that evil fruit of sin. Build your tent under the tree of the fruit of life (Ps 90) Eat the fruit of life hurriedly and give to your spouse to eat likewise (Jn. 4).

Enjoy the best of your Edenic comfort in Christ. But please, to acquire and maintain the grace, it is your duty, responsibility and safety precaution to be more spiritual than the most spiritual cultist. They have, like spider web, spread around the world within or outside Christendom.

God bless you.

**Conclusion**

Are you inspired? Kindly drop your comment below:

I so much welcome criticism. I do a lot of constructive criticism, so I wouldn't object to similar act. Let's talk and chat about the whole matter:

Finally, Eccl 12:13-14.

Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter:

Fear God and keep His commandments,

For this is man's all.

For God will bring every work into judgment,

Including every secret thing,

Whether good or evil.

Be my guest

My Smashwords profile page: https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/sanctuarymultimedia

**Follow me on Twitter** : http://twitter.com/Oluwafem_Israel

**Friend me on Facebook** : http://facebook.com/nextlevelrevelation

Connect with me on LinkedIn: http://ng.linkedin.com/in/nextlevelrev/

Wattpad: http://www.wattpad.com/user/sanctuarymultimedia

Blog: http://iaoluwafemi.blogspot.com

**Voluntary donation:**

Zenith bank, Nigeria:

Oluwafemi Israel, ACC No 2101917834

Why is the book free?

The simple answer to this question is that a lot of people are in need of this sort of information but don't have the necessary facilities to purchase online. A lot might even have the facilities but the fund is not available. If living word is restricted to those that have, how just is the message then? I personally wish that the book is circulated to everybody, especially youths in the Christendom both in the rural areas world over and in the urban areas. You can as well support by circulating the gospel work free of charge for the sake of soul winning for our Lord Jesus Christ.

God bless you.
