

The Tatted Crooner

The Celeb Hookups: Novella 1

By Stacey Haga

Published by Stacey Haga at Smashwords

Copyright 2017 by Stacey Haga

Cover Design by James, GoOnWrite.com

This book is a work of fiction. References to real people, events, establishments, organizations or locations are intended only to provide a sense of authenticity and are used fictitiously. All other characters, incidents and dialogue are drawn from the author's imagination and are not to be construed as real.

All rights reserved.

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

No part of this book may be reproduced, scanned or distributed in any printed or electronic form without prior permission of the author.

Dedication

To all the celebrities who have inspired countless fantasies. May you never meet us and spoil the dream.
Chapter 1

"That's right! You just heard the song of the day! Caller one-hundred gets front row seats and the last backstage passes ever for Jackson Barstow's concert tonight!" The radio DJ announced before playing another of the pop singer's top hits. Jackson Barstow had four songs currently in the top ten, so it wasn't far-fetched for KISS FM to play a couple of his songs back to back.

Camila Vaughn didn't notice what song was playing, though. She was already on her fifth attempt to get through to the radio station. She had been trying all week to win the tickets and passes to the concert and this was her last chance.

It was actually everyone's last chance for the backstage passes. Jackson Barstow announced last week he was going to stop giving the special access after his Progress Tour wrapped up with his final performance in Los Angeles.

"Come on, come on," Camila said quietly as she looked over the cubicle wall to see if anyone was taking notice of her dropping everything to call in. As she suspected, no one in the advertising agency noticed.

Everyone had their heads buried in their work, creating the next ad campaign for Pepsi, Comcast or whatever company it was this week. As just a paid intern, Camila never knew what was going on until the eleventh hour when someone would ask her to edit a press release or proof an ad. Truth was, she had a feeling she was going nowhere fast with the agency. They never give me a real shot to show what I can do...

Her thought was interrupted by not a busy tone, but a ringing tone coming from her cell. Camila muffled a shriek of delight. "Yes!"

Camila waited with intense anticipation. The adrenaline rush she felt at that moment was unbelievable.

A person answered on the fourth ring. "Hey! You're caller forty, try again!"

The line disconnected and Camila cursed under her breath and dialed again. She was so close, but yet so far away. She got a busy tone and hung up, immediately hitting redial again.

In actuality, she didn't need to do this. Her dad was a top Hollywood movie producer and could make one phone call to the right person in his infinite black book to get her the tickets and backstage passes, but where was the fun in that?! For Camila, it was all about the chase, the chance, the game, the challenge. With prime seats and the last backstage passes for arguably the biggest name currently in pop music at stake, this was one contest she had to win.

Three more busy signals did nothing to deter her, she dialed again.

"Camila..." a voice said behind her. It was Travis, her supervisor at the moment. He probably had a mundane task for her to do. Camila turned her chair around, keeping her ear pinned to her cell phone. "I have..."

Camila shot a finger up, halting him from continuing when she heard the exhilarating sound of a ringing tone again. He stopped talking and waited patiently. Camila tucked one side of her long, angled bob behind her ear that wasn't cradling the phone. She was on the edge of her seat as the phone continued to ring.

"Hey! Who is this?" A voice said on the other line. She recognized the voice immediately as belonging to the DJ and an enormous surge of excitement rushed through her.

"Camila," she answered with a huge smile on her face.

"Well, Camila, I hope you are a huge Jackson Barstow fan because you are caller one-hundred!"

"Oh, my God! Yes, I am!" Camila jumped out of her seat and hopped up and down like a little kid. She didn't care, 23-year-olds were allowed to act childish when they won such a cool prize.

Travis crossed his arms over his chest as Camila gushed to the DJ about how excited she was to go to the concert. She was almost as excited about that as she was about just winning the contest. She got such an incredible high from beating the odds. It was addictive.

After a few minutes of giving the radio station her information and receiving instructions on how to pick up the tickets and passes, she disconnected the call and wrote down the information on her notepad. She had forgotten Travis was waiting outside her cubicle until he cleared his throat.

"Oh, sorry. I totally forgot you were there!" Camila smiled brightly as she swiveled back around in her chair.

"Sounds like you won something," Travis commented, his slight smile didn't reach his eyes.

"Yes! Tickets and backstage passes to Jackson Barstow's concert tonight! I can't wait! I have to get ready!" Camila gushed excitedly, not paying much mind to Travis' demeanor. He wasn't the most social person at the ad agency. "Did you need something?"

"I did, but seeing you have more important matters to attend to, you can cut out early if you want," Travis replied curtly.

Camila ignored his sarcasm and grabbed her tan Hermes Birkin bag out of the overhead compartment of her cubicle. He probably only had something for her to edit, which though necessary, it was not why she wanted to work at the agency. She wanted to be one of the people who assisted with filming commercials and bringing the ad campaigns to life with her vision. That's what she was great at, not editing. Besides, whatever he was trying to give her on a Friday afternoon could wait until Monday morning.

"Thanks! I knew you'd understand," Camila smiled as she walked past the disgruntled, middle-aged man and toward the elevators.

Once she was inside the elevator and alone, she pumped her fist in triumph. Her persistence this week paid off and big time! She couldn't believe she was going to be one of the last people to go backstage at his concert. She caught her reflection in the shiny panel of the elevator and gasped. A tiny bit of her blond roots was peeking out from her scalp. The contrast with her deep-dyed raven strands was obvious. That would never do if she was meeting Jackson Barstow. She took out her cell phone and texted her hair stylist and friend, Britney Childs.

Camila: Hey! I got tickets to tonight's concert and I need my roots touched up STAT!

In less than a minute, Britney responded. Her promptness was just one of the many things Camila liked about her.

Britney: Wow! I got you! How soon can you get here?

Camila: About 30 minutes. Thanks!

Britney: See you soon!

Camila had been going to Britney for the last five years. She was edgy, wild and pure genius with a pair of scissors in her hands. When Camila first told her she wanted to look as little like a California Barbie doll as possible, Britney chopped her hair into an angled, long bob, permanently straightened it, and dyed her flaxen hair the color of midnight. She loved the anti-Hollywood look so much, she'd kept it that way ever since.

The guys at UCLA used to flock to her at parties because her raven hair, dark brown eyes, and trendy outfits were so different than the blond-haired, blue-eyed bombshells that seemed to clone themselves over and over again in southern California. Of course, she always found herself chasing after the guy who wouldn't give her a second glance, rather than settling for one of the boys who wagged their tongues at her like dogs in desperate need of some water. Maybe that's why she was single most of the time, but she didn't care in college. Once she had that aloof guy begging to fuck her... Yes! It was a game that was exhilarating to win.
Chapter 2

After a short drive made unreasonably long by traffic jams and road rage drivers, Camila arrived at the trendy salon on the outskirts of Beverly Hills. Several stylists were all busy with clients, but miraculously, Britney had a clean, empty chair waiting for her.

"I don't know how you do it," Camila smiled as she took a seat. Britney put a black smock around her to protect her clothes. She already had the dye mixed.

"Easy, I just threaten to kill off the client that comes between you and I. They run from here screaming and I have an opening for my best gal," Britney laughed. Camila didn't doubt Britney would cancel appointments last minute or shove a client off on a new stylist for her top customers. She had a few celebrity regulars. Camila wasn't famous, but she was well connected and paid Britney generously for her services.

"Thank you, doll," Camila responded as Britney began to touch up her roots with dye.

"There's not much new growth, but this is Barstow we're talking about here! I totally get it!" Britney commented.

"I know! I still can't believe I won the last pair of front-row seats," Camila grinned while looking at her friend through the mirror. Britney was a few years older than her, but you couldn't tell by looking at her. Her skin was as smooth as porcelain and almost as white. This week, her long, wavy extensions were dyed a fiery red which complemented her pale green eyes beautifully. Needless to say, she didn't prescribe to the blond bombshell look either.

"Front row?! Wow, that's insane! Who are you going with?" Britney asked while smoothing a section of Camila's now dye-saturated hair to the side.

"Backstage passes, too. You know... I have no idea!" Camila laughed, she was so caught up in the fact she won, she hadn't thought about who she wanted to take with her. It needed to be someone fun, who also liked the well-known pop singer.

Britney joined her laughter. "Only you would dive in first before making sure the pool was full of water. I love that about you."

"Yeah, I just had to win, you know? Plus, it's Jackson Barstow. I'd go alone if I had to!" Camila commented. Britney nodded her head in agreement. "Do you like him?"

"Honey, I was probably one of the few people left who liked him when he went through his rebelling stage. In fact, I may have liked him better then. He's still hot, though, in that reformed bad-boy way," she answered as she continued to work on Camila's hair.

"I liked him back then, too!" Camila agreed. "I actually thought he was so cute when he was younger, but since I was older than him and in high school, I had to act like I was too cool to listen to him."

Britney laughed. "Yep, and then he hit puberty, chopped off the hair that made him famous, and started acting like he had a chip on his shoulder. Sexy fucker."

"What is it about the bad boys?" Camila sighed.

"They're fun," Britney shrugged as she set the bowl down that contained the dye mixture.

Camila nodded as she looked up at Britney. They had hung out several times. She was her favorite shopping buddy because they had similar style. They had never gone bar-hopping or to a club, though. Camila normally reserved those nights for her old sorority sisters. Her first thought was to ask her good friend Jessica to go to the concert, but something told her Britney would be more fun backstage. Besides, what would Jessica do backstage anyway? She had a serious thing going with her boyfriend, Chad.

"What are you doing tonight," Camila asked Britney, her brow scrunched in thought.

"Not a damn thing unless you're taking me to the concert," Britney chuckled. Camila was surprised she didn't have plans on a Friday night. Not that it would have mattered, any self-respecting girl would break plans to attend the epic concert.

"You'll go?!" Camila asked excitedly, she had a feeling tonight was going to be a night she'd never forget.

'You bet that sweet ass of yours I'm going," Britney mischievously grinned.
Chapter 3

With her hair perfect, Camila went home to get ready for the concert. Home was her father's mansion in Beverly Hills. She knew she could move out whenever she wanted and get her own place, but she loved the estate too much. She had too many fond memories there of her mother before she passed away.

Her mother was the quintessential Hollywood wife. She graced the red carpet at her father's side with enough plastic surgery to make her look half his age, but Camila still loved her more than anyone else in the world and missed her terribly. Her mom gave Camila such an exotic name because she wanted her to grow up to be an heiress like Paris, Nicky or Tori and embrace the lap of luxury like she had.

Camila wasn't opposed to the designer clothes and luxury cars. However, she had no desire to have her photo taken every time she went out, so she avoided the A-list parties and red carpet. Camila's parents never understood her anti-Hollywood attitude when she was growing up, but they didn't force it on her either. Camila assumed they learned their lesson with her older brothers, who were much more opposed to fame and fortune than she was.

Her father was difficult at times and that's largely why she didn't ask him for much. Then again, she could use his black American Express card whenever she wanted, so she didn't have to ask.

He was almost finished producing his latest film. It was a guaranteed blockbuster about a real-life assassin who published a bestselling, tell-all book about his secret work for the U.S. government. That meant her father was working more than 12 hours a day. She was hopeful she wouldn't see him tonight before the concert. When he was in producer mode he could be unbearable to be around. He didn't get the nickname "The Golden Globe Dictator" for being laid back and quiet on set.

After a quick salad for dinner, she headed up to her room to get ready for the concert. She showered and almost thought she was in the clear after she found the perfect outfit, a red silk mini skirt with a matching off-the-shoulder top, but then she heard her father's deep voice downstairs. The tone of his voice as he talked on his cell phone told her he was in a less than happy mood.

Camila knowingly shook her head, walked into her large bathroom, and started applying her makeup. She was thankful he only had about a month left on this project. He was actually fun when he was not working, taking the family on elaborate trips and playing tennis with her. She was looking forward to a few matches with him in the back yard. She was just finishing up her winged eyeliner when her father walked into her bedroom.

"Camila?"

"Yeah, dad?" She called out as she started to apply her mascara. He appeared in the doorway behind her and she glanced at him through the mirror. He had his sleeves rolled up on his expensive button-down shirt and his designer chinos had a few wrinkles. His short, blond hair was a little disheveled. He had been working hard, that's for sure.

He frowned as he looked at her skimpy attire. He was always protective of his only daughter. "Where are you going dressed like that?"

"Jackson Barstow's concert," Camila replied, putting on a second coat of mascara. She wanted her lashes extra flirty tonight.

"I see," he replied, scrutinizing her more. She could tell he was in producer mode, which meant this was going to be a difficult conversation at best. "Aren't there better things you could be doing with your time?"

"Like what?" Camila replied in defiance. She put down her mascara and glared at her father through the mirror. Most parents wouldn't tolerate that kind of behavior, but her father expected it. He didn't raise weak children. He taught them all to be head-strong and driven.

"Like trying to make something of your college degree and that ad agency you insisted on working for," he stated firmly.

Now she knew what this was all about. He accepted her getting a degree in advertising because it had a few parallels to the film industry and he knew she had a good eye for video production like he did. However, that acceptance ended more than a year ago when she took an internship at one of the top ad agencies in Los Angeles and stayed on even when they didn't offer her a salary position after she graduated.

"On a Friday night? What could I possibly be doing job-wise on a Friday night?" Camila huffed and went back to applying her makeup. She wasn't a workaholic like him. He needed to just accept that.

"Maybe looking for a real job would be a place to start," her father fired back.

"And advertising is not a real job when you make even more money from it?" She argued back while applying her blush. He couldn't deny the power of good advertising in his job, it helped make him millions every year and they both knew it.

"You are not in advertising, honey. You're working part-time copy-editing in a cubicle when you should be on set, visioning, creating and making a name for yourself."

He had a point, she just didn't feel like giving him the satisfaction of agreeing right now. He was souring her good mood before the concert. She replied quietly. "It takes time to work your way up the ladder."

He stared at her hard in the mirror and she wondered if he was going to walk off without saying anything else. It wasn't in his character, but there was a first time for everything with him. She was applying her red lipstick and liner when he replied.

"If they haven't noticed your talent yet, they never will," he said quietly, but firmly. She knew that tone, it was the same tone he used when he told her that her mom didn't beat the cancer she had been fighting for months. It was his way of masking the sadness he felt and it got her attention. She put her lipstick down and turned to face him.

"What am I supposed to do? They haven't even let me go to one of the sets when they're filming commercials." She was venting her frustration, but part of her wanted his advice on how to get ahead at her job. He was a brilliant businessman.

"I could use you on set for my next film."

Camila sighed in exasperation. She wasn't going to get help from him on how to advance at the ad agency. He wanted her to work for him. How many times were they going to go through this? She didn't think she could handle him in full dictator mode on the set of a film. He was bad enough at home.

"Dad, I told you...." She started to shoot him down immediately for the third time. The first two times were when she graduated high school and then when she finished college.

"Just think about it, because you're going nowhere with that ad agency," he replied gruffly and walked out of her room before she could respond. That was her father, he always got the last word.

Frustrated with her father dampening her mood, she grabbed her lipstick and shoved it into her studded, black clutch along with the tickets, passes, keys, credit card, and her ID. Shoving her petite feet in a pair of black Louboutin stilettos, she rushed out of her room and down the stairs to the large garage. She was getting out of the house before her father could attempt to further ruin her night.
Chapter 4

"Have I told you lately that I love your car?!" Britney beamed as she slid into the passenger seat of Camila's red Aston Martin DB9.

"Not since I saw you last," Camila replied with a smile that didn't quite reach her eyes. The conversation with her dad had plagued her mind during the drive to Britney's apartment in West Hollywood. It left her feeling less than cheery.

"Are you ready to party tonight or what?!" Britney exclaimed as she pulled the hem of her short, black dress down after putting on her seat belt.

Camila noticed Britney's dress was so short she could see a flash of her neon pink lace thong as she sat in the leather bucket seat. The dress was a little trashy, but perfect for the concert as it left little to the imagination with a plunging neckline of loose fabric that grazed Britney's pierced navel. That, coupled with her long, scarlet locks and Camila's provocative red ensemble, was sure to get them noticed in the front row by Jackson tonight.

"Yep," Camila answered with lackluster as she pulled out into traffic. The purr of the car's engine didn't quite give her the thrill it usually did.

"Hey, what's wrong? You were much more excited earlier," Britney commented, looking at her friend with concern.

"My dad and I got into it while I was getting ready."

"About what?"

"My job. He thinks it isn't going anywhere and wants me to work for him instead," Camila sighed as she navigated the congested lanes of traffic heading toward the Staples Center.

"Man, I don't know if I could work for your dad. He scares the crap out of me. I'd rather work for the devil or that Hell's Kitchen dude." Britney shook her head.

The comment made Camila smile a little. Sure her dad was a tough cookie, but she'd rather work for him than Gordon Ramsay.

"He's not that bad, just a bit of dictator."

"Do you like your job?" Britney replied, asking the million-dollar question.

"I guess so... I don't know," Camila contemplated.

"Ok, that's a no," Britney laughed. This time Camila joined in. "Well, whatever. No one likes their job, except for maybe me, but it pays the bills. Your crappy job and angry father will still be there tomorrow for you to deal with, but tonight.... This insane concert is going down tonight!"

Camila nodded at her friend as she pulled up to a stoplight. "You're right."

"I don't believe you, I don't think you're ready for this!" Britney said, turning in her seat to face her friend, her eyes wild with excitement.

"I'm ready for tonight," Camila smiled, her mood lifting.

"I can't hear you!" Britney called out loudly. "Let me hear it!"

"I'm ready!" Camila shouted with a laugh.

"Little bit louder now!" Britney yelled, rolling down the passenger-side window. "What are you ready for?"

"I'm ready for Jackson Barstow!" She yelled back, feeling the last of her frustration melt away. She picked the right girl to go to the concert with, Britney would not accept her having anything but the best night of her life.

"Yeah!" Britney screamed and high-fived Camila. She then leaned her head out the window and yelled at the car beside them. "We're going to see Jackson Barstow! Woohoo!"

The middle-aged black man in the Cadillac Escalade next to them yelled back. "Shut up!"

Britney flashed one of her D-cups at the annoyed driver and yelled back. "Fuck you, buddy!"

Camila's head tipped back as she busted out laughing. The light turned green and she punched the gas. Her scream of excitement was no match for the roar of the Aston Martin's V12 engine. Britney squealed with delight and flipped everyone off as the car sprinted across the intersection. Yes, it was going to be a night they'd never forget.
Chapter 5

The opening act exited the large, multi-level stage as Britney and Camila hugged each other with excitement. This was the moment they and thousands of fans had been waiting for. Camila couldn't believe the perfect seats the radio show had given her, front and center.

"Did I tell you how hot you look tonight?" Britney asked over the noise of the crowd as she played with a silken strand of Camila's long bob. "Jackson is going to notice you for sure."

Camila put an arm around her friend's trim waist and hugged her excitedly. "He'll notice both of us! You remind me of Jessica Rabbit in that sexy dress of yours!"

Britney tossed her long scarlet locks over one shoulder and gave Camila a sexy, come hither look. She knew how to work it, but before Camila could praise her the entire arena became bathed in darkness.

"Oh, my God! This is it!" Britney screamed.

The crowd was deafening when Jackson's voice echoed throughout the place. His acapella rendition of the first words of one of his current hits showcased his vocal range. He could hit the lowest of the lows and the highest of the highs, but Camila loved the rich smoothness of his middle-range. She let out a loud whistle of appreciation.

She just wished the lights would come on so she could see him. It was so dark she couldn't see five feet in front of her. It sounded like he was everywhere and nowhere at the same time. Like he was all around her, but yet so far away. The feeling was as haunting as his soulful crooning.

All of a sudden, a bright spotlight shined down on the stage in front of her and he was there, right there in front of her. She let out a shriek of shock as the crowd nearly broke glass with their high-pitched squeals of delight. Britney grabbed her arm in excitement. He was only about six feet in front of Camila and she felt like she could reach out and touch his hand as he extended his toward her.

Holy, crap! He was looking right at her as he sang about waiting his whole life for the moment when real love would be his. The audience of mostly teenage girls and twenty-something women continued to scream, but Camila had lost her voice. She was too awestruck by the man in front of her.

The singer had just turned twenty-two last month, but his bourbon-colored eyes told the story of a man who had experienced things way beyond his years. His frame was small, but the shape of his arms and shoulders came from lean muscle. His attire was simple, a long-sleeved gray t-shirt, black skinny jeans, and white sneakers, but she knew they were all designer. He was growing out his buzzed hair and a lock of platinum grazed one of his eyebrows as he sang.

She could have watched him stand in front of her and sing like that for the rest of the night, maybe even the rest of her life, but the music began in the second verse. The stage became fully illuminated as male backup dancers popped out of random spots on the stage. They rushed to the center and Jackson joined them as the music launched into an electronic dance beat.

"Oh, my God! That was crazy!" Britney shouted over the constant screams surrounding them. "He's such an awesome dancer."

"I know!" Camila shouted back. She then remembered she had her phone and took it out to video Jackson as he matched the dancers in thrusts, kicks and jabs.

Usually, there's a noticeable difference between the style and skill of the backup dancers and the singer, who focuses more on the lyrics. Not with Jackson though. He bumped and ground his hips with them, driving all the women in the audience crazy with his superior dance moves.

Camila loved his smooth body movements followed by quick, punctuated transitions. He was in full control of his body, never giving less than 100 percent as he transitioned from the first song to the next. His control and stamina turned her on more than she wanted to admit. After the second song, Jackson stopped singing and walked back to the front of the stage.

Just a few feet from Camila and Britney screaming in excitement, he addressed the crowd. "How you doin' tonight Los Angeles?!"

The crowd roared in response.

"I can't hear you!" He smiled and put his hand to his ear. The crowd got louder and he nodded as he dropped his hand to his side. He paced back and forth on the stage, eyeing his screaming fans in the first few rows. When his eyes roamed over Camila and Britney he spoke again, his voice emanating a smooth sensuality. "So many pretty ladies in here tonight. You ready to have some fun?!"

"Yes!" Britney and Camila yelled in reply along with everyone else.

"I said... are you ready?!" He called out long and loud as the music started up again. It was his biggest hit from last year, "Ready to Fall." Camila remembered not being able to turn on the radio without hearing it for months.

As he joined his female backup dancers on the second level of the stage, Britney leaned into her friend. "This is my favorite song!"

"Mine too!" Camila laughed. She loved the mix of the guitar with the electronic rhythm, it was so different and edgy, just like him.

As Jackson sang about being ready to fall for a bad girl, he occasionally reached out and grabbed his dancers as they sassily moved around him. Camila and Britney danced along to the beat and sang along. Camila wished she could dance with Jackson, he was so smooth and sexy as he ground his hips against a blond dancer.

Camila smiled knowing his provocative dancing was a middle finger to the people that complained his concerts were becoming too sexy for young girls. She took his side in the matter, he wasn't a kid anymore. He should be able to act like an adult on stage – a suave, horny one, but an adult.

A couple of songs later, Camila could tell Jackson was getting hot dancing around. She could see beads of sweat on his forehead and his hair was damp. His long-sleeve t-shirt was beginning to cling to his torso as he walked around singing about summer time and summer loves.

She leaned over to Britney and pointed at the large screen above the stage. "He's getting hot."

Britney grinned wickedly. Apparently, she heard the stories, too. "You know what that means!"

Before Camila could respond, Jackson paused in the middle of the stage and whipped off his shirt. The screams were so loud, she swore every girl in the arena was going to pass out from lack of oxygen.

Fuck, he's hot, Camila thought as he took the wadded-up material and rubbed it slowly down his chest. He was slim, but he had all the required muscles to make him a man and not a boy. If there was any question of him no longer being a kid, one needed to only look at his arms. They were covered in tattoos, most of which he got during his rebellious phase.

Camila wet her lips, there was just something about a guy who could sing the way he did. His voice was sensual and soulful, making him more attractive with every word he crooned to his audience. His smile was playful as he held out the shirt in front of him. Britney shrieked in excitement, bumping her friend and bringing Camila out of her daze. Britney reached her hand up toward the stage. Jackson teased the girls in the front row, who were going crazy wanting him to toss his shirt at them.

"Oh, you want this?" He asked a group of girls to their left. Britney vocalized her displeasure as he walked toward them. He laughed. "But these ladies want it over here."

He pointed over to the right of the stage and started to walk to them. Camila and Britney screamed with all their might as he walked near them. Camila didn't know who wanted the shirt more, her or Britney.

"Haha! Ok! Ok!" He toyed with the girls in the center. "Well..."

He seemed to think about it for a second and then tossed the shirt in Britney's direction. She squealed with delight as she reached to her left to grab it. That's when the girl next to Britney practically jumped on top of her and nabbed the gray shirt. Britney cursed and nearly fell over, but Camila grabbed her and adjusted her dress when a nipple slipped out. The girl who rudely nabbed the shirt was waving it around in triumph. Camila was vaguely aware of the scent of his cologne on the shirt, a woodsy musk, as she steadied her friend.

"You ok?" Camila asked Britney with concern. She kept an arm around her friend's shoulder as she straightened back up and pulled the short dress back down over her butt.

"Yeah, I'm good. No thanks to that bitch," Britney replied and shot daggers at the girl next to them, who was still basking in her ill-conceived victory.

"Are you ladies alright?" A security guard asked as he came up to them. Camila had noticed him earlier standing a little to her right. He was a big dude and his job was to keep crazy fans from getting on the stage.

"Yep, nothing a free t-shirt couldn't fix," Britney joked with the bald man. They all shared a brief laugh before the guard went back to his post a few feet away.

The brief scuffle was quickly forgotten as Camila and Britney turned their attention back to the stage where a now shirtless Jackson Barstow was dancing with all his backup dancers in an awesome routine.

"Damn," Camila murmured. She was having a hard time not crushing hard on him. She'd always enjoyed his music and thought he was pretty cool, but seeing him in person was making her see him in a different, sexual way. Britney didn't seem to hear her friend, she was probably just engrossed as she was, watching his every move as he made his way around the stage.

Later on, when Jackson Barstow sang a couple of his ballads, the audience held up their cell phones lighting the arena like an ocean of LED lights. Britney and Camila held theirs up too, signing along with Jackson. A couple of times, Jackson stopped singing for a couple of seconds and stood in awe of his fans and the sea of flashing lights surrounding him. His expression was one of pure amazement and appreciation. In those moments, Camila couldn't help but smile at him, he was really living his dream. She wanted to feel that lucky as well.

"You are all amazing," Jackson said after finishing his most popular ballad where everyone sang every other line back to him. His voice wavered ever so slightly with emotion. "Just amazing. Thank you... Thank you."

After a small chuckle of disbelief in how enamored the crowd was, he was lowered down under the stage. Music played and the all the backup dancers danced around as Camila assumed Jackson changed under the stage. When the music changed after a couple of minutes, Camila listened to it carefully. It sounded so familiar.

"What song is this? I can't put my finger on it, but I've heard it before," Camila asked Britney.

"I know I was just thinking the same thing! It's so familiar," Britney agreed, tilting her head as she listened.

The lighting changed and started to dart across the stage quickly. The audience began to get a little louder and then the intense bass line came in and everyone erupted into cheers.

"Oh, of course! 'Cry your eyes out!'" Britney exclaimed. The song was hailed as the hit that turned him from boy pop singer to a bona fide adult male artist. It showcased his ability to sing, rap and beatbox in one hit song.

As Jackson Barstow came back onto the stage, he demonstrated it was indeed his talent on the track, beatboxing in a gray suit and white sneakers as he made his way to the top of the stage.

Camila nudged her friend and Britney leaned in so she could hear her over the music. "Isn't this about his ex? Whitney?"

"I think so," Britney replied as Jackson performed with raw aggression.

The song was about being cheated on and he wasn't willing to take the girl back. The crescendo of the song had the crowd screaming the words back at him, "Go ahead and cry your eyes out over me, cry your eyes out."

He launched into his rap, his face inches from the camera that fed his mug to the jumbotron above him. His words flowed with so much emotion, it made Camila assume the rumors of Whitney, a past girlfriend, cheating on him while she was on tour overseas were true. When he finished his rap, he flipped off the camera to the roar of the crowd. They loved bad-boy Jackson.

Bad-boy Jackson didn't last for long, though. After another ballad, he shed the suit jacket and was back to dancing around and showing off his tatted arms in a sleeveless button-down white shirt. After a few more songs, Jackson stopped to talk to the audience again.

"How's everyone doin'? Still with me?" Jackson called out with enthusiasm. Camila, Britney and everyone else cheered their approval. Camila could watch him perform all night, but she was getting anxious about meeting him backstage. She wanted to see what he was like off-stage. "You have all been incredible tonight, this has been amazing for me. How has it been for you?"

Camila actually had to hold her hands over her ears, the high-pitched squeals were so loud, but she just shouted along with them.

"Alright. Well, all good things must come to an end," Jackson paused as the crowd whined, he just shook his head and smiled. "However, great things must end with one last song."

The crowd erupted into cheers again and after almost a minute, he continued.

"Ok, quiet down. I get it, I get it," he smiled genuinely. "For this last song, I need help from a very special lady in the audience."

Camila couldn't help but feel her body shake with excitement as he glanced at her. He walked toward the front of the stage and walked along the edge, shaking everyone's hands as he walked along. Britney was reeling with excitement when he reached out to them and held both of their hands at the same time. His gaze passed between them, his smile seemed to take on a carnal appeal. Camila swore she felt him start to pull her hand to come on stage, but then he released it, as well as Britney's.

"No," Britney pouted as he moved on and eventually pulled onto the stage a young blond, she had to be thirteen at the most, but that didn't stop the insane streak of jealously Camila felt.

He took the girl by the hand to the middle of the stage and sat her on a stool. As he began to sing his ballad that was topping the charts at the moment, Camila grabbed Britney's hand.

"Hey, let's head backstage," Camila encouraged, she had no desire to watch Jackson act innocent as he sang to the young girl. She knew he was anything but innocent after the look he gave Britney and her.

"Yes, let's!" Britney agreed and they made their way through the front row of fans and to the side of the stage where several security guards awaited.
Chapter 6

Backstage was already crowded with a mix of Jackson Barstow's staff, entourage and fans, who were eagerly awaiting him to come down the hall. Camila could hear the fans screaming after Jackson finished and said farewell on stage. All the fans with backstage passes were instructed to wait in the hall and were roped off to one side to allow the staff, backup dancers, band members and Jackson to walk by.

"So, here's the deal," Britney said excitedly, walking back to Camila after getting the lowdown from one of Jackson's bodyguards, who hadn't stopped staring at her legs and chest since they walked backstage. "Jackson spends time signing autographs and posing for photos out here, but he'll ask some fans to join him in the back where he and his entourage hang out. We gotta get his attention pronto to have a shot at getting back there."

Camila glanced around at the other fans lining the hallway. There was some definite competition, but many of the girls looked to be barely eighteen. "I think we can pull that off. Just have to play it cool."

"Yeah, definitely cool."

The hallway became loud as the backup dancers made their way past. Most of them high-fived the fans as they passed. Their energy was still high and it gave Camila a rush of excitement as she slapped hands with a few of them. Her chance was coming soon. She had one shot to get his attention and the odds were against her. That only made her more driven to win, the adrenaline was starting to kick in.

She could have been blind and still know when he walked into the hallway. It wasn't just the squeals of excitement from the fans. It was the electric charge the air took on around them. It fed the rush inside her as he slowly made his way toward them. They were about halfway down the hall and he was taking his time shaking hands, signing autographs, and posing for photos. Camila enjoyed watching him interact with the crowd, it was a lot different than how he worked the stage. He spoke softly, moved slowly, and he acted very politely.

A very attractive blond offered her ample chest for him to sign, making sure he got a good look at the yellow lace of her bra. He signed the top of her breast with a laugh, but Camila could tell he was slightly uncomfortable with the situation. Another girl asked for a selfie with him and snuck in a kiss on his cheek. He laughed, but moved on quickly to the next group of girls. They, in turn, got a little touchy feely and Jackson kept his time with them brief. No wonder he was ending the backstage passes. He obviously wasn't comfortable with his more aggressive fans.

"You up for some tit flashing?" Britney joked, adjusting the cowl neck of her dress to show off her ample assets better.

Camila chuckled and then whispered in her friend's ear. "I don't think he likes that. Did you see how awkward he was when that bimbo asked him to sign her chest?"

"Maybe he doesn't like fake boobs," Britney laughed and then with bug eyes whispered frantically. "You don't think he's gay, do you?"

"No. I just think we don't need to act like sluts out here to get back there," Camila replied, eyeing Jackson carefully as he talked to the girls next to them. She was looking for any sign of what he was looking for, but she hadn't seen him pick one girl so far to head to the back room.

"Gotcha," Britney nodded as he wrapped up talking to the other girls.

His eyes immediately fell on Camila and she couldn't help but smile at the look of recognition in them. She wondered what made him remember her out of the many fans in the first row. He smiled warmly at her and Britney as he shook their hands.

"Great concert, Jackson," Britney replied warmly. Camila nodded in agreement.

"Thanks," he nodded genuinely. "You two were in the front row, right?"

"Yeah, I won the tickets in a radio contest," Camila smiled. She was still reeling in her good luck.

"That's awesome! I never win anything," Jackson laughed.

"I'd have to disagree with that," Britney winked at him.

"Ok, well, maybe I win every once in a while," Jackson conceded with a depreciative smile. Camila was a little surprised how humble the guy was because he didn't act that way on stage. Plus, he had won just about every award nomination he had received since he was a young teenager.

They all laughed at his modesty and then Camila decided to get a picture with him just in case this was her only shot. "Could we get a photo with you?"

"It would be my pleasure. Ace?" Jackson replied. One of the bodyguards following him closely took Camila and Britney's phones as Jackson got between them. He put his arms around their waists, a casual move, but one that still excited Camila. She had to get in the back area, she just had to.

After Ace gave back their phones, Jackson thanked them for coming out to the concert. Camila noticed a little nod between him and his bodyguard as he moved on down the line.

Camila and Britney continued to watch Jackson as he greeted the rest of his fans after they gushed over their photos with the pop star. They were perfect. However, as Jackson got toward the end of the line, she began to wonder who he was inviting to the back area. No one had been talked to or pulled from the line.

When he began to tell the fans goodbye in the hall, she really felt they lost their shot. "I just want to thank all of you again for coming out tonight. As you've probably heard, this is the last time I'm giving out backstage passes. So, I thank you for making this special for me. I wish all of you a great night and a great life. Goodnight!"

The murmurs of disappointment were apparent as the arena's security guards began to usher the fans out of the hall and to the exit. Jackson went down another hallway that Camila could only assume led to the back area the bodyguard had mentioned to Britney.

"Is that it?" Britney frowned as they slowly walked in the dismayed herd toward the exit. "What a joke."

"I don't get it. What about what that guy said to you?" Camila glowered.

"Maybe he just fed me a line of crap so he could stare down my dress more," Britney huffed.

As they approached the exit, Camila felt bereft. Maybe she should have been more provoking when Jackson talked to her and flirted with him? She hated to lose. It was always such a letdown. She managed to give Ace a small smile as he stood to the side of the exit with a security guard.

"Thanks for the pics, Ace," she acknowledged as she approached the open double doors.

"Not a problem ladies," Ace replied, his buzzed haircut reminded her of a soldier or a cop. She wondered if he used to be one. Not that it mattered, she was leaving. Before she could go out the door everyone else had exited, Ace stopped her and Britney. "You two can use those doors to exit."

He nodded subtly in the direction behind him. It was a short hallway with another set of double doors, but it wasn't the one Jackson had used earlier. That one was to his right.

"Ok," she obeyed as if she had been given an order by a police officer or her father. Britney and Camila walked around Ace and to the doors beyond. The excitement of the unknown and uncertainty began to build inside her. Could it be?

"What was that all about?" Britney asked quietly. Camila shrugged, but they both noticed what was on the other side of the doors at the same time. It wasn't the arena or the parking lot. It was another hallway. "Oh, my God! We're in!"

Camila agreed excitedly as they opened one of the doors. As they entered the new hallway, they were greeted by the bodyguard Britney spoke to earlier.

"Haha! You made it," he smiled at Britney. "Party's in that room down there. See ya in a few, doll."

"If you're lucky!" Britney laughed as they walked quickly past him and toward the door he mentioned. It was obvious which one they needed to enter. Music and laughter could be heard coming from it long before they got near it.

Camila and Britney grinned at each other as they opened the door. Inside reminded Camila of her college days attending frat parties, but tamer and fewer people. Loud music, booze, weed, lots of laughter, and loud talking. It was a mixture of some of the dancers and band, what Camila guessed was Jackson's entourage, and a couple of groupies, but there was no sign of the singer.

"Would you ladies like some shots?" A middle-aged guy asked them. His casual designer suit alerted Camila that he was most likely one of Jackson's managers or a record producer. He had that business look about him.

"Sure," Camila smiled as he handed Britney and her double shots of a clear liquid and limes.

"Patron, one of Jackson's favorites," the man said casually, his accent hinted that he was raised in Brooklyn. "I'm Frank, the tour manager."

"I'm Camila and this is my friend, Britney," Camila replied, pleased she had guessed the man's occupation correctly. Being around the big-wigs that associated with her father had taught her well. The girls did a couple of shots with Frank and congratulated him on an amazing concert. Unlike Jackson, he wasn't very humble about his hard work.

"Yeah, this tour was worth every million spent. My best work yet," Frank beamed with pride. Britney smirked at his arrogance, but Camila understood it being the daughter of a film producer. "Well ladies, help yourself to any of the food or alcohol. If you want weed, Lucy has the best shit. Jackson should be in here as soon as he's done showering."

"Thanks," the girls replied.

They didn't have to look for Lucy. The skinny, pink-haired backup dancer found them and shared a joint as she flirted with Britney. Camila was a little surprised to learn from their conversation that Britney was bisexual. Lucy said she could spot a girl with similar tastes a mile away.

Before Lucy left the girls, she inhaled a joint deeply and slowly exhaled the smoke an inch from Britney's full lips. Britney closed the gap slightly as she inhaled. The suggestive scene caught a couple of guys' attention and Camila's. She had to admit it was pretty sexy watching them. She had never done more than just kiss a girl before in college and that was to get a guy's attention. Clearly, Britney did it for other reasons.

A little high and tipsy, the girls lounged on a couch, sipped champagne, and checked out the after party. Camila noticed only a few girls had been invited back besides them. They were all beautiful, including the one that had stolen Jackson's shirt from Britney during the concert.

"Of course, she would get back here. That nasty bitch," Britney mumbled and downed the rest of her champagne. Terrance, the bodyguard who had been ogling Britney since they arrived backstage, was quick to go get her another glass. "What was he thinking?"

Camila chuckled as the bottle-blond gushed over her ill-won prize with Jackson's agent. "Maybe she has a nice personality."

Britney huffed at Camila's sarcasm and dealt some of her own. "No personality can make up for her rank armpits."

Camila laughed loudly as Terrance gave Britney another glass of bubbly spirits.

"Seriously!" Britney laughed, turning her left shoulder to her friend. "Smell my shoulder, I bet it smells like pure ass!"

"I'll smell more than just your shoulder, doll face," Terrance cut in, suggestively touching Britney's upper arm.

"Nice try, thanks for the champagne," Britney frowned at the bodyguard. "Now, do us a favor and go hit on smelly pits."

Terrance took the hint and strolled off just as Jackson walked into the room. His eyes immediately fell on Camila and an instant excitement came over her. His stare was the same carnal one he gave her at the end of the concert. He was dressed casually in faded denim and a white t-shirt. He had a bottle of beer in one hand and Camila could smell his masculine body wash as he walked over to the couch where they sat.

"Let the party begin," Britney whispered as he approached.

"Hey! I'm glad you accepted my invitation. Britney and Camila, right?" Jackson smiled as he took a seat on the arm of the sofa closest to Camila. The girls nodded happily. Camila was impressed he remembered their names and took it as a good sign.

"As if we wouldn't accept," Britney smiled at the singer. Lucy sauntered up to Jackson and gave him a fresh joint she had just lit. She winked at the girls as he took a long drag and gave it back to her.

"Thanks, Lucy," he said quietly after slowly exhaling. Then Lucy headed over to the other side of the room where a group of dancers hung out. He seemed very relaxed now and Camila realized he must have been nervous when he was in the hallway earlier with all his fans. She wondered why.

"So, are you two from L.A.?" He asked, leaning forward with interest.

"Yep, born and raised," Camila replied. Britney nodded in agreement. Britney was actually born in Riverside, but that was close enough.

"Cool, what do you do?"

"I'm a hair stylist in Beverly Hills," Britney offered.

Camila chimed in quickly after her friend, so Britney wouldn't mention her father. She wasn't ashamed of her dad, it was quite the opposite, but famous people always treated her differently if they knew of her dad. She just wanted to be treated like everyone else. "I work at an advertising agency. Nothing exciting."

"Nah, that's cool. Do you make commercials and stuff?" Jackson asked. He seemed genuinely interested in what she did.

"And stuff," Camila smiled. She wanted to make commercials, but that wasn't happening anytime soon to her dismay. They all chuckled at her cheeky response.

"Since you do hair..." he began. He motioned to Britney and then pointed at his unruly lock of hair that fell carelessly over his forehead. "What would you do with this mess?"

"Oh, honey," Britney smiled as she stood up and walked over to Jackson. She was going to take full advantage of this situation. She ran her hands through the top of his hair that had been grown out and then over the shorter sides. Camila could tell Jackson liked the feel of Britney's fingers in his hair as his eyes went halfway closed. She had the magic touch and Camila was a little envious her friend was touching the singer. She wanted a good reason to touch him as well. "You don't want to go back to your roots, do you?"

Jackson grimaced at her tease. "Hell no."

Britney laughed and lifted the longer lengths of his hair between her fingers. Camila bet she was imagining cutting it or something else far more erotic.

"Just kidding. Why not go edgier then? I'd grow out the top, straighten it, and bleach it platinum. Then go with a close buzz on the sides. The contrast of your dark blond roots would look sick. What do you think, Camila?" Britney asked with a sly wink.

"Sounds hot," she agreed, withholding a chuckle as Britney continued to play with the singer's hair.

"It definitely sounds cool. I want to do something different now the tour is over," Jackson commented, looking up at Britney with his brown eyes.

"Come see me anytime, I'd love to get my hands on you," Britney grinned, letting her double entendre sink in as she let go of his hair.

Jackson grinned wickedly and the way he bit his lower lip made Camila want to do things to him. The look Britney gave him conveyed a similar thought. They all chatted and flirted for awhile. Jackson didn't seem in a hurry to make his rounds to everyone in the room. Camila was thankful for it, because every moment they spent together, the more desire built up inside of her. A mutual attraction was undeniably there. His subtle, perusing glances of her body. His leg casually brushing hers as they all shared a toast. She even noticed him eyeing Britney's lips as she sipped champagne. He was interested in them both, but how could they get him alone to explore this attraction?

"Hey, man. Are you going to talk to anyone else tonight?" Jackson's agent joked as he approached the trio. They were laughing on the couch after Jackson told them about the time his pants fell down on stage in Toronto.

"Yeah, sure," Jackson smiled genuinely at his agent. He gave Britney and Camila a look of longing as he stood up. "Please don't leave. We're just getting started."

"Wouldn't dream of it," Camila responded.

"But if you take too long to get your cute ass back over here, we're out!" Britney joked.

"Alright, I promise I won't be long," the singer chuckled as he walked over to a couple of girls. They had been shooting daggers at Britney and Camila for hogging the celebrity.

"Oh, wow! He is so hot," Britney quietly sighed to her friend once they were alone. "Did you see the way he was looking at you?"

"What about you?" Camila replied with a smile. "I thought he was going to pull you onto his lap when you were touching his hair."

"I know," Britney grinned wickedly. "I have the Midas touch."

The girls wandered over to the dancers and chatted with them and Ace for a while. Camila's eyes occasionally drifted over to Jackson and each time she found him glancing at her and Britney. It was like he found them more interesting than his current company as he made his rounds. When he talked to the girl who nabbed his shirt from Britney, Camila and her friend grew nervous.

"He's not looking at us anymore," Camila whispered to her friend. He hadn't glanced in their direction in the 10 minutes since he began talking to pretty blond. She was flirting with him hard and sharing a joint with him.

"I don't like this. I won't lose him to nasty girl twice," Britney declared. She looked at Camila conspiringly. "Let's get his attention back."

Britney took Camila's hand and walked a little bit away from the dancers they had been chatting with. The music playing was a remix of one of Jackson's hits. Britney started to dance and Camila joined in. They danced sexily, Britney tossing her flaming locks around as Camila raised her hands above her head and swayed her hips. The dancers clapped and a few joined in as someone turned the music up louder. Camila glanced at Jackson, but he was engrossed in the blond as she talked.

Britney saw his lack of interest too and grabbed Camila's hips, making her grind against her thigh. Terrance whistled in appreciation of the show and Jackson glanced casually in their direction. He watched for a second before directing his gaze back to the blond.

Camila's competitiveness kicked into overdrive. She was not letting him get away that easily. She wanted his attention back and more. She grabbed the hem of Britney's dress and pulled it up slightly as she arched her back. When she rolled her body back up, she noticed she had Jackson's attention again, but he still didn't make a move to leave his present company.

"We need to amp it up," Camila told her friend as they continued to dance closely together.

"Do you trust me?" Britney asked. The look in her eyes was unbridled, wild.

"Yes," Camila answered.

Britney pulled Camila flush against her body and pulled her raven locks at the back of her head. Camila tilted her head back and Britney ran her lips up her neck. When her lips reached Camila's chin, she gave her a look. Camila nodded briefly, granting permission.

Britney teased her lips open with her tongue and Camila kissed her back to the cat calls of the dancers and bodyguards. Camila could swear she heard Jackson's voice among the praise as she slipped her tongue into Britney's mouth. The kiss was so sensual and Camila was shocked how much it turned her on. When she kissed that girl in college it was fun, but a little awkward and somewhat chaste. Britney was literally making love to her mouth as their bodies ground against each other.

"Mind if I join in?" A familiar voice asked, but there was something different about it this time. It was charged with deeply-rooted lust.

Britney slowly removed her lips from Camila's and looked lustfully at Jackson. "Depends on what you have in mind."

"How about we start with a dance," he replied with a knowing smirk.

"As long as it just starts there," Britney challenged him as he slipped between them and began to dance.

Camila was thankful Britney spoke for them and for the fact Jackson faced her friend as he danced between them. She needed a second to pull her thoughts together after that kiss. She wasn't bisexual, though she found women and their femininity very sexy, but that kiss opened her mind to possibilities she hadn't considered before. If Britney was that good at kissing her lips, what else would she be good at? Good was an inadequate word. What else would she be amazing at? The thought made the junction of her thighs hum and she was thankful for the little relief she got when Jackson coaxed Britney and Camila into riding his thighs.

"You two are so hot," Jackson murmured as they felt up his hard chest.

"You haven't seen nothing yet," Camila finally spoke. Her brazen comment was fueled by her lust for him, her competitive spirit, and an unprecedented growing interest in her friend.

"Oh, yeah?" Jackson chuckled in response. His chuckle was only slightly nervous. It was more along the lines of "so... this is going to happen," than "oh, my God, I can't believe this is happening!"

Britney rubbed against Jackson more to confirm Camila's statement. He grinned at her and stroked her back as he ran his other hand through Camila's silky hair.

"I'm thirsty," Britney sighed into his ear. "What do you have to drink other than Patron and Moet?"

"I have Cristal in my dressing room," Jackson replied, glancing between the two friends for their agreeance.

"That sounds perfect," Britney and Camila replied in unison.
Chapter 7

"They only gave me a couple of flutes," Jackson smirked as he handed Camila a glass of Cristal. Britney declined the flute and took the bottle of expensive champagne instead. "Guess they didn't plan on me having two lovely ladies in my dressing room."

Britney chuckled as she took a swig of the champagne. Jackson sat down on the chaise and took a sip from his glass. He eyed Camila and Britney like he was wondering what they were going to do next or what he was going to do to them. Camila leaned back against the vanity that served as the makeup station. It lacked any sign of cosmetics, though, just an electric razor, lip balm, and hair gel littered the counter.

"And what are you planning on doing with these lovely ladies now that you got us alone?" Britney asked provocatively, closing the distance between her and Camila.

"I was planning on just watching. That kiss out there was hot," Jackson smirked with a raised eyebrow.

"Yes. It was, but you won't be able to just watch," Britney replied, running a hand up Camila's thigh. Camila kept her eyes on Jackson. She was a little high and tipsy, and her bi-sexual friend was hot, but she had a slight reservation about making out with Britney while Jackson just watched. She wanted him to join them, it would be the ultimate highlight of her evening. "Will he, Camila?"

Britney kissed her neck and the lustful look in Jackson's eyes made Camila tremble with excitement. They could make it a game and see how fast they could get him to join in on the fun. She loved games. Camila tilted her head back to grant Britney better access and murmured sensually. "Not for long."

Britney took a sip of Cristal and brought her lips to Camila's. With a gentle probe of her tongue, she coaxed Camila's mouth open, allowing the liquid to pass. Camila swallowed it and licked her lips provocatively.

"That's my girl, let's have some fun," Britney whispered into her ear as she gently pulled Camila's red skirt down her thighs, revealing her skimpy, black satin panties underneath.

Britney went to her knees in front of Camila, stroking her bare thighs and brushing her thumb over the fabric covering her freshly waxed pussy. Camila gasped at the sensation, it was an unexpected turn on. The sound of Jackson adjusting in his seat caught her attention and she looked back at him. His gaze was heated as he stroked himself over his jeans. Seeing him turned on gave her the rush of excitement she craved, but she wanted more from him. She hooked the sides of her panties and pushed them down, baring herself to Britney.

Britney helped her out of them and playfully tossed the fabric at Jackson, he caught it with his free hand and brought it to his nose. "Smells like heaven."

Britney mimicked his sensual murmur as she kissed the sensitive skin between Camila's thighs. "I bet she tastes like it, too."

Camila gasped again and let her body slump against the counter when Britney slipped her tongue inside. Her eyes fluttered closed as her friend began to lick and suck her sensitive bud. It felt incredible, better than any guy had done to her, but a girl would know exactly what another girl wants. Camila's legs opened wider on their own accord. Her body wanted what it was getting and didn't care who was giving it to her. Maybe Britney was onto something being bisexual...

Camila moaned softly as the vibration deep within her increased. Britney stayed focused on her clit, not applying too much pressure, just enough to drive her pleasure higher and higher. When she slipped a finger inside Camila's slick channel and stroked her G-spot, she thought she'd die of pleasure.

"Fuck!" She called out as she fisted Britney's long, red hair. She didn't even realize she had been holding Britney's head between her thighs. Her friend didn't seem to mind as she briefly chuckled into her slit. The vibration sent Camila to the edge with another moan.

She had forgotten about Jackson for the moment, lost to the intense pleasure Britney was giving her as she worked her magic between her thighs. However, his presence consumed her when his lips crashed down on hers. She could taste the Cristal that lingered on his tongue as he stroked hers. She released Britney's head and cupped Jackson's handsome face as he kissed her passionately. His hands pulled at her top and they broke their kiss long enough for him to lift the garment over her head. She forewent a bra when she got dressed earlier because they never worked right with off-the-shoulder tops. She was thankful she had when Jackson immediately palmed her small, round breasts as he resumed kissing her.

With Jackson by her side, feeling her up and kissing down her neck, she let go of any small reservations she had about making out with Britney. It was worth it to feel this good. Britney and Jackson seemed to work together to bring Camila to her climax. He took her pert nipples into his mouth, sucking on one while massaging the other and then switching. At the same time, Britney increased the pressure of her tongue against Camila's swollen clit, bringing her to the brink of orgasm.

"You didn't take long," Camila teased Jackson with a small moan as he nipped at a rosy peak.

Jackson grinned as he released her breasts and pulled off his white t-shirt. He leaned over to pick up the bottle of Cristal sitting next to Britney's knee, kissing her cheek as he did so. Her hum of appreciation made Camila groan. He dragged the cool bottle up Camila's torso and between her breasts, making them pebble even more.

"You are so beautiful," he murmured as he tipped the bottle and let the cool liquid trickle over her breasts and down her flat stomach. Britney lapped up the champagne that pooled in Camila's pussy and flattened her tongue against her swollen bud of nerves. The pressure, coupled with Jackson sucking the liquid off her nipples, was her undoing. She climaxed with a cry as she clutched both of their heads against her shaking body.

Britney let Camila ride her face and stroked her G-spot to give her more pleasure as the waves of her orgasm hit her repeatedly. Jackson glanced up at Camila's face contorted with ecstasy.

"Fuck, you're so hot," he whispered. As her orgasm began to fade, Jackson kissed Camila, sucking her bottom lip and teasing her tongue, but it was just as limp as her body felt at that moment and she weakly responded. His quiet chuckle was one of understanding, she needed a second to recover after an orgasm like that.

Jackson moved to Britney, who was eyeing them both with unbridled lust, and helped her to her feet. He wasted no time, taking the scrap of black fabric called a dress off her body. Her full breasts bounced free as he lifted the material over her head. Camila had to admit she was a little jealous, Britney had curves for days. She was happy with her svelte body, but seeing Jackson grope Britney's chest and round ass with awe would make even a supermodel jealous.

He slipped a hand inside the hot pink lace of Britney's panties and stroked her intently. Britney groaned as their lips met. Camila watched, feeling a buzz begin again between her thighs. It was erotic watching their tongues entwine, knowing both of their mouths had just given her so much pleasure. Britney worked open the fly of Jackson's jeans as he deftly palmed her heavy breasts and devoured her mouth. Camila wondered if Jackson could taste her on Britney's tongue. The titillating thought drove her into action. She eased off the counter and took the step to bring her naked body against theirs.

She palmed Jackson's neck and coaxed his lips from Britney's. He was happy to kiss her again as his tongue dove deep into her open mouth. She massaged it with hers, tasting her musk mixed with Britney's saliva. The taste turned her on more, but she wanted to taste him. Obviously, so did Britney.

While Camila was kissing Jackson and rubbing her hands over his tattooed arms, her friend had pulled his jeans and red boxer briefs down to his feet. Camila had briefly wondered during the concert what the pop star would pack given his lean frame. Apparently, his leanness ended between his legs, because a fat cock bobbed in between the girls.

A sudden need to have that hard cock fill her surged through Camila's body. Whether it was in her pussy or her mouth, she wanted it. Preferably both.

"Don't you just want to suck on that, Camila?" Britney purred as she lowered herself to her knees again, feeling up on Jackson's washboard abs and narrow hips as she went.

Camila chuckled at her friend stating exactly what was on her mind. She nibbled on Jackson's lower lip before going to her knees herself. "I want more than just that."

She gazed up at Jackson's face as she made the comment and the desire in his eyes told her she'd get her wish soon. Then his head fell back as he let out a quiet curse. Camila didn't need to look at her friend to know what she was doing, but she wanted to see it all the same. Britney was deep throating his hard dick, taking as much of him in as she could. She was coming up a little short and Camila assisted her by massaging the base of his shaft and balls as her friend sucked him hard.

They took turns and Camila loved the salty taste of his precum as she stroked his thick shaft firmly and then sucked the head. He drew in a ragged breath as Camila let the stiff knob of his dick hit the back of her throat. She hummed in satisfaction while Britney bit the "V" that led to his manhood. The moan he let out as he firmly grasped Camila's silky, midnight strands was worth the effort. When Britney moved to take back over, Jackson stopped them both.

"You two gotta stop. I'm about to cum and I haven't fucked you yet," he said breathlessly.

The friends grinned at each other in satisfaction as he helped them to their feet. Camila felt incredibly sexy in just her tall heels as he kissed them at the same time. Their tongues entwined to the point Camila didn't know who she was kissing, nor did she care. She had never been so turned on. Everyone's hands were all over each other and their breathy sighs intermingled. Eventually, someone left the group. The sweet kisses and smooth hands stroking her breasts told her Jackson had stepped away. Camila's eyes fluttered open as Britney's lips made their way to her perky breasts. Jackson was only a couple of feet away, getting something out of his leather Diesel bag that sat on the floor near the chaise. When he pulled out a condom and pulled the chaise away from the wall, Camila nudged her friend.

Britney glanced at Jackson and beamed at Camila with the indescribable excitement she felt. She couldn't believe they were about to have sex with the hottest pop star currently around. The rush she felt as they walked over to Jackson was undeniably the biggest she'd ever experienced. The cushions of the maroon chaise looked inviting as Britney and Camila sat down on it. They admired Jackson as he sheathed himself in front of them. He gave them a look that asked who wanted him first. No doubt they both wanted first dibs, but Britney answered.

"She won the tickets, she gets that glorious cock of yours first," Britney declared. She then shifted her body so her legs hung on either side of the chaise as she lounged against the arch of cushion that served as the head of the posh piece of furniture.

Jackson smiled and leaned over Britney, kissing her lips and full breasts. Then he went to Camila and kissed her hard as he pulled her to her feet. "I want you from behind."

Camila turned her back to him, pushing her small, round bottom against his hard member as she went on her hands and knees in between Britney's legs. Britney stroked her friend's silky hair as Jackson stepped to the end of the chaise and lined his lower body up with Camila's. He groped her ass and caressed the damp folds that were on display for him. She had never felt so hot and empowered being eyed lustfully by two people. She moaned and pushed her lower body against his hand as he tested her with two fingers.

Camila wanted to thank her friend for being so generous in her offer and lowered her mouth to Britney's delta. She had never considered going down on a girl before, but in this moment, it felt so right. She kissed the delicate, soft skin and licked at the tight knot of flesh that peeked out from its pink hood. Britney sighed with delight as she watched her friend explore between her thighs. Jackson continued to stretch Camila's tight channel with his fingers as she did the same to Britney and tasted her.

It only took Camila a moment to figure out what her friend wanted, she just did everything she wished a guy would do to her when he performed oral sex. Her efforts were applauded by Britney. "Oh, yes! God, that feels so good... Keep doing that."

Jackson rewarded Camila with the smooth invasion of his dick. She had to stop fingering her friend and support herself with both hands as she took him in. His fat cock stretched her further as he slid deep into her. He withdrew and pushed quickly back in making her groan into Britney's thigh.

"Oh, God!" She called out as he began to pulse inside her. He felt incredible and it took Camila a lot of effort to continue working Britney toward her climax.

Jackson gripped her hips tightly as he thrust hard into her. "Fuck... so good."

Britney's moans of pleasure mixed with Jackson's as Camila applied pressure to her clit with her tongue. Their bodies worked as one as Jackson jostled Camila with his thrusts and the movement resulted in Camila's tongue applying alternating pressure against Britney's sensitive bud. Britney screamed out with pleasure as she climaxed, holding her friend's head just as she needed it to get off. If it wasn't for the continued bass-heavy music vibrating the wall near them, Camila would have sworn everyone backstage could hear their cries of ecstasy.

Britney rode out her orgasm and then leaned forward, bringing Camila's lips to hers as Jackson continued to make her whimper with pleasure as he rocked his hips.

"Girl, you're amazing," Britney praised her friend before kissing her passionately.

Camila and Britney slowly raised up onto their knees as they kissed and Jackson wrapped his arms around them as he continued thrusting deep inside Camila. Britney tilted her head away and kissed Jackson as Camila leaned down to tongue one of her friend's pebbled nipples.

"I need you," Britney whispered fervently against Jackson's lips. Camila knew the feeling and although she wanted Jackson to continue to take her, she had to share.

"Are you as tight as her?" He teased Britney, slamming hard into Camila and making her yelp.

"Let's find out," she teased back as Jackson eased out of Camila.

Camila got off the chaise and watched her friend as she lied back against the chaise and pulled her legs up toward her face, opening herself fully to Jackson as he kneeled over her. Britney groaned as he slowly slid into her. Camila knew how good that first thrust felt and she practically moaned with Britney as she watched his cock disappear inside her. Jackson gave Camila a brief glance as he pulled out, but Britney regained his attention as he pushed back in.

"Yes," Britney moaned as he filled her again.

Camila just stood and watched as Jackson began to power into her friend. She touched her herself, wanting to feel as good as Britney sounded. She found herself hypnotized by Jackson's ass as he moved. It was small, but it flexed with incredible strength as he fucked her hard.

"Oh, God! Camila," Britney gasped. Camila walked to the head of the chaise where Britney's tangled waves spread over it like a long, scarlet tassel. She stroked her friend's hair and face. "He feels so fucking... good."

"Yes, he does," Camila agreed as she held her friend's ankles, pulling them down more so Jackson could hit her deeper.

He tilted his head, beckoning Camila to come closer and she leaned over the head of the chaise to kiss him. The kiss was a little awkward as he continued to pump into Britney, but it was hot all the same as Britney called out his name.

Her moans of pleasure drove Camila into a frenzy. She wanted to feel him again... now. "Jackson, please."

Her plea was all he needed. He withdrew from Britney and laid back on the chaise. Camila rushed around and straddled his narrow hips. She lowered herself onto him quickly and groaned loudly as he filled her completely. Britney didn't miss a beat, saddling up behind her friend and helping her get off as she reached around and teased Camila's tiny nipples and clit.

Jackson grabbed Camila's waist as he raised his hips to hit her deeper. She nearly came on the spot, but wanted to prolong her pleasure. She knew this was the last time she'd feel him inside her. She managed to hold off for a minute before her grinding against his pelvis sent her over the edge. As she came hard, Britney tweaked her sensitive nipples. The mixture of pain and pleasure was incredible as she bucked against Jackson's thick cock until the pleasure dissipated.

Britney urged Camila off Jackson and took a turn at riding him as Camila collapsed on Jackson's upper abs and chest. Britney sounded lost to her intense pleasure as she rocked her hips against him, using Camila's ass for balance. Camila didn't care because Jackson was sucking her breasts as he pumped into Britney. It didn't take Britney long before she hit her peak with a long, loud moan. Jackson released Camila's nipple and groaned as well as he thrust a few more times in his own climax.

Camila sagged her body against his and Britney leaned into her back as she let Jackson's semi-hard cock slip from her. They were a heap of heavy-breathing bodies for a few moments, all of them recovering from a threesome they would not soon forget. Camila doubted she could ever forget such an erotic, exhilarating experience.
Chapter 8

Camila couldn't believe the course the night had taken. After they recovered from their threesome, they rejoined the after party for a little while and then Jackson asked Camila and Britney if they'd like to go back to his hotel room for the "after-after party." At first, she assumed that meant it would be just the three of them for round two. She quickly learned otherwise when the two bodyguards, Jackson's DJ, and few others in his entourage crowded into a large limo to head to the hotel.

Leaving the arena was crazy. Paparazzi and fans screamed and took video and photos from the opposite side of the nearby barricade as the group got into the vehicle. Camila noticed how the bodyguards blocked the cameras from getting a decent shot of Britney or her. She was thankful for it because she didn't want her face plastered on the cover of every celebrity tabloid come Monday. Fans surrounded the limo as it slowly left the arena and headed to the hotel.

The ride was short since the streets were fairly empty at 2 a.m. and the chatter in the limo was loud and full of laughter. While Britney did shots with Jackson at every red light, Camila chatted with his DJ, Uber Beats. The tall, lanky guy was friendly and gave her the low down on the "after-after party." Camila learned that the people in the limo were Jackson's closest friends on tour and they always stayed at the same hotel. After every concert, they would party in his room until sunrise or until they all passed out.

Camila chuckled as Britney teased Jackson with a lime nestled between her boobs after they did another shot of Patron. Then spoke softly to Uber. "Does he make a habit of bringing fans back to his hotel room?"

"No. Frankly, I'm surprised you two came with," he replied honestly. "He's had his girlfriends come visit sometimes, but he usually keeps to himself. He's a quiet dude."

The fact Jackson didn't make it a habit of hooking up with fans made Camila feel even more special and lucky to have done it. Camila didn't press the DJ for any more information. She didn't want to ruin her welcome.

A few minutes and one large group toast later, the limo pulled in front of the Four Seasons. The hotel was beautifully lit and seemed peaceful as the group casually walked through the lobby. The bodyguards led the way and didn't seem concerned about anyone bothering the superstar. Camila knew the hotel took pride in its security, it was her father's first choice when hosting any celebrity event. Everyone made their way to the private elevators that led up to the penthouse floor, while Jackson with his arms around Camila and Britney, followed.

Jackson was mentioning how much he loved the décor of the hotel lobby to his new companions when he was suddenly jerked away. A brunette woman grabbed Jackson from behind and was babbling incoherently as she tried to tug his t-shirt off him. The scuffle caused Britney, who was very drunk, to stumble and fall to one knee. Camila almost joined her as well, but she managed to keep her balance.

Ace and Terrance came to the rescue quickly, wrestling the woman away from Jackson as one of the hotel's security men rushed over. Jackson's agent helped Britney to her feet.

"Are you ok?" He asked both of them. Britney and Camila nodded, their eyes wide as they watched the crazed fan being hauled off to a side room beside the front desk.

Jackson looked stunned, but unharmed, as he approached them. He glanced at Britney's knee, red from its impact with the marble floor of the lobby. "I'm so sorry. Do you need to see a doctor?"

"No, I'm fine," Britney assured him as they both inspected her knee to make sure it wasn't bleeding or swelling.

"Are you sure? Can you put weight on it?" Jackson asked, his concern was genuine.

"Yes, see?" Britney asked as she took a couple of steps. She seemed fine, but Camila knew her friend was pretty drunk and high. She might not feel pain right now, but her knee was going to be hurting with a nasty bruise in the morning.

"Ok," he answered. He seemed relieved neither of them was seriously hurt. He turned to Ace, who had just joined the group after making sure hotel security had a firm hold of Jackson's attacker in their office.

"Hotel security just called the police and they're calling the hotel manager as well," Ace explained to Jackson.

"Ok, thanks," Jackson replied and turned to his agent. "Will you talk to the police when they get here and let them know I don't want to press charges?"

"Are you sure? She..."

"No charges," Jackson stated firmly. His voice turned soft when he glanced at Camila and Britney, then the rest of his entourage. "I just want everyone to go up to my room before anything else happens."

"I'll take care of it."

"Thank you," Jackson replied and then signaled with his head that everyone should continue on to the elevator.

Jackson put his arms around Camila and Britney again as they resumed their way to his room, but his gesture seemed more protective than before. Everyone silently got into the large elevator when its doors opened.

"Are you alright? She yanked you pretty hard," Camila asked Jackson quietly as they rode the elevator up to the top floor. During all the commotion, she didn't recall anyone from his entourage asking if he was ok, besides Ace and Terrance after they pulled the woman off of him. The observation made her a little sad.

Jackson rubbed the base of his neck, which was slightly red from his shirt being tugged by the crazed fan. His response was a whisper only she could hear. "Yeah, I'm fine. It startled me more than anything."

"Me, too," Camila agreed quietly and gave his hand that encircled her waist a brief squeeze. He returned the reassuring gesture as the elevator door opened.

Within just a couple of minutes, everyone seemed to forget about Jackson's dangerous encounter with the crazed fan. Once inside the lavish presidential suite, laughter and chatter resumed as people began pouring drinks in the large main room of the suite.

"This place is at least three times the size of my apartment!" Britney exclaimed as she glanced around the well-appointed living and dining area. "Well done, Jackson!"

"Thanks," Jackson replied with a small smile. Unlike everyone else, he and Camila weren't quite as lively.

He offered to give the girls a tour of the suite when the hotel room phone rang. "Help yourselves to some drinks. I need to answer that."

He walked over to the hotel phone near the grand piano and answered it. Camila could tell it was the hotel manager by the way Jackson spoke. As Terrance fixed Britney and Camila a drink, Camila caught bits and pieces of Jackson's conversation over the entourage's friendly banter as they lounged in the living area.

Jackson gave Camila and Britney a small smile as he talked into the receiver of the phone. "No, sir. That won't be necessary, it's late and I'm sure they woke you up. I've stayed here every time I come to L.A. for the last eight years. One mistake won't change that."

Camila really admired how politely Jackson spoke to the manager. He had every right to be angry about the hotel allowing the crazed fan to get into the lobby. He could have been curt or ill-tempered, but instead, he spoke to the hotel manager with the same kindness and respect he'd show a grandparent. It was just one more example of how different his onstage persona was compared to his offstage demeanor. She wondered how much of his bad boy attitude emphasized by the press was exaggerated or false.

Her eavesdropping was hindered for a few moments by Britney's loud giggle at a joke Terrance made. Observing her friend for a moment made Camila realize Britney was becoming extremely intoxicated and she needed to watch out for her. Britney made it clear earlier while they were backstage that she wasn't attracted to Terrance, but now, she didn't even flinch or brush him away when he stroked her thigh as she sat on a bar stool at the wet bar. Camila had been to enough frat parties to know trouble in the making when she saw it.

"Ok, girl," Camila said with a small laugh as Terrance topped off Britney's drink again. She kept her tone lighthearted so she wouldn't come across as a party-pooper. "I think that's your last drink for a little while."

"Ok, mom," Britney slurred and then laughed at her own joke. When she took a long swallow of her drink, Camila overheard Jackson once more.

"No, I insist. I'll pay for this stay. It really wasn't your security team's fault. Fans are getting crazy nowadays and incredibly sneaky," Jackson assured the hotel manager.

Wow, Camila thought to herself as she took a sip of her drink. Jackson was proving to be more of a gentleman with every second that went by.

A minute later, Jackson rejoined them and Terrance poured him a drink.

"Sorry about that," Jackson said bashfully. He almost seemed embarrassed at what had transpired since they arrived at the hotel.

Camila didn't want him to feel that way. "There's no need to apologize. Some things are just out of everyone's control."

Jackson nodded silently as he finished the drink and poured himself another.

The next half hour Camila spent chatting with everyone while keeping a close eye on Britney and her progressing stupor. Jackson flirted with both of them a little, but mostly he relaxed on the couch and occasionally laughed at the crazy antics his friends engaged in.

When Camila noticed Britney dozing off mid-sentence in a reply to Terrance, who was groping her chest, she knew she needed to step in. She leaned over to Jackson who was sitting on the floor, with his back resting against the bottom of the couch she was sitting on. "Hey, Britney is about to pass out over there. I think I should get her home."

"You aren't in any shape to take her home either," Jackson answered. He was right. She was still buzzed, just in much more control than Britney at the moment. "You can both stay here tonight."

His bourbon-colored eyes expressed a need for her to stay as he looked up at her. "Ok, thank you. Can we get her into bed then?"

"Yeah," Jackson replied as he stood up. Camila noticed the frown that crossed his face as he noticed Terrance's rogue hand. He smiled though when Britney looked longingly up at him from where she was sprawled on a chaise next to Terrance. "Ok, sweet girl. It's time I took you to bed."

"Round two?" Britney giggled, her words were barely coherent.

Jackson chuckled as he picked Britney up in his arms. Camila didn't bother to hide the smug look on her face as Terrance frowned at his easy target being carried off by his boss to one of the suite's bedrooms. Camila followed them and immediately noticed the bedroom was vacant of any personal items. Obviously, Jackson used another bedroom.

He set Britney down gently on the edge of the bed and pulled back the down comforter as Britney kissed his neck. Camila watched from the doorway as he gently tucked in a sleepy, drunk and horny Britney. Britney wrapped an arm around Jackson's head and ran her fingers lazily through his short, blond hair. His smile was soft as he leaned down and kissed her lips.

Camila was only a little disappointed watching them kiss. She had hoped they would have another threesome, but him being attacked by a crazed fan earlier made her wonder if it could happen again between them. Then Britney's binge drinking made her certain it wouldn't happen. Not that it was the end of the world, she was more concerned now about Britney sleeping off the booze safe from Terrance's groping touch.

Jackson gently broke the kiss and silently encouraged Britney to rest. She smiled sleepily up at him from the plush pillow. "You're a bad boy."

The faintest of smiles reached the corners of his mouth. "Was. Now close your eyes."

Britney obeyed and he rewarded her with a light kiss on her forehead. Camila could hear her soft snore by the time Jackson walked up to her.

"I guess she can't handle alcohol like I can," she whispered.

"Guess not," Jackson agreed. "She'll be fine in here. You can sleep in my bedroom if you want."

"I should stay with her. I don't want Terrance getting any ideas."

Jackson gave her a look of understanding, but also disappointment. She didn't expect that from someone so popular and famous. He seemed to accept her idea for a moment, but then replied resolutely. "Give me a second."

He left the bedroom, leaving Camila alone with her friend. He was only gone long enough for her to get the waste basket from the adjoining bathroom and place it next to the bed just in case Britney got sick during the night.

Jackson came back into the room and spoke softly as to not disturb Britney's slumber. "Ace is going to sit in the hallway outside the bedroom door. He'll make sure no one bothers Britney. Everyone will probably call it night in an hour or so anyway. Then it will be just us three."

"Oh, ok," Camila replied, both relieved and surprised. She assumed some of Jackson's entourage crashed in his room. "Thank you."

"No problem. I just want to take care of you two since I brought you here," Jackson replied almost with a hint of guilt.

They both made sure Britney was sound asleep before stepping out of the bedroom. As Jackson promised, Ace had pulled a chair from the dining table into the short hallway and was sitting comfortably. The sight of him keeping watch over Britney made Camila relax. She knew Ace wouldn't allow anyone to bother her friend.

"Thanks, Ace," she whispered as she and Jackson passed by on their way back to the large living area. He nodded his welcome.

"So, what would you like to do now?" Jackson asked Camila as they headed toward his friends who were engaged in a drinking game. "Want to join them?"

"Actually, I could really go for a shower right about now," Camila said with a depreciative laugh. She swore the smell of old pot and booze was sticking to her skin, a combination she was not a particular fan of after the buzz began to wear off.

"Sure. You can use the one in my room," Jackson offered, steering her away from the rowdy group of people and down another hallway. This one was a little longer and at the end of it was a set of double doors. Jackson opened them, revealing his private abode.

The room was elaborately decorated, but Camila loved how Jackson had made it his own. A few shorts, high tops, and t-shirts littered the bed and floor. His iPad sat on the nightstand next to a couple of gold and platinum chains. A gaming system was plugged into the large flat screen with a few games tossed beside it. It may have been a five-star hotel room occupied by a huge pop star, but Jackson was still in his early twenties and could care less about using dresser drawers or the room's safe. The disarray would make any mother annoyed, but Camila found it refreshingly normal.

Jackson quickly reached down and picked up a pair of black boxer briefs and a white tank off the floor in front of Camila. "Sorry, I wasn't expecting anyone to join me in here. I'm kinda messy."

"You're kinda normal," Camila chuckled as Jackson blushed and proceeded to make sure the bathroom was clear of anything embarrassing.

"I don't think anyone has ever called me that," he responded, motioning her into the bathroom. "That might be the best compliment I've ever received."

She knew it was a joke, but once again she found his comment making her feel a little inexplicable sadness for the pop star. Did anyone treat him like a regular guy? She shook the feeling aside as Jackson offered her any of his toiletries, including his toothbrush, and then left the room to give her privacy. She wondered if sharing a toothbrush was a little too much as she slipped off her shoes and left them next to the bed, but after what they did in his dressing room, she supposed it wasn't too crazy of an offer.
Chapter 9

After a nice long, hot shower using Jackson's lemony body wash, Camila felt clean and refreshed. She wrapped her damp hair in a towel and donned one of the plush white robes. She contemplated how she could get Jackson to leave his entourage and rejoin her back in the bedroom. She definitely wanted to sleep with him again, but she also just enjoyed getting to know him better. He was so different than she imagined. He was more kind and thoughtful than aloof and rebellious.

She didn't have to contemplate for long though. When she opened the bathroom door, her eyes immediately fell on Jackson, who was sitting on the edge of the bed holding one of her shoes. He turned it slowly in his hands and then looked up at her.

"Red soles, huh?"

"Yeah. They kill my feet, but they're worth it," Camila smiled, recalling how sexy she felt wearing only them as Jackson fucked her.

He looked back down at them and replied softly. "You looked so sexy in them tonight."

"Thank you," she replied quietly back. There was something in his demeanor that seemed sad, even forlorn. She removed the towel from her hair and sat next to him on the bed. She studied his handsome profile. "Are you alright?"

Jackson set the expensive heel down on the floor with reverence. His continued acts of respect still took by surprise. "I am. I guess I'm just tired."

Camila could tell he needed more than sleep, he needed to talk. She could tell the signs after four years of being the person her sorority sisters preferred to go to with their problems.

"Tired of what?" She gently nudged.

"It's hard to explain," Jackson said after a brief moment of staring intently at Camila.

"Give it a shot. I'm pretty good at listening," Camila encouraged him.

"It's just... even in a room full of people, I still feel..." Jackson frowned deeply like he was searching for the exact word to describe how he felt. He came up with two. "Utterly alone."

There was no denying the sadness his statement made Camila feel that time. It made her even more distraught she couldn't understand how he could feel that way.

"What do you mean?"

"I don't think those people out there are my friends," Jackson explained. "It's like... I wonder if they only hang with me because of what I do, not because of who I am. If I wasn't famous, would they still like me?"

Camila understood his explanation and she could identify with it on a small level. In high school, a couple of actresses befriended her. She thought it was because they had fun hanging out at the mall. She eventually found out they only befriended her in hopes of catching her dad's eye and getting cast in one of his blockbusters. It was a somewhat similar situation to Jackson's, but his was far worse because of the magnitude of his popularity.

"I see. That must be really hard for you," Camila acknowledged, looking into his brown eyes.

"I swear, sometimes I just want to tell everyone to stop using me and to get lost, but then I'd be a real jackass," Jackson shrugged.

"Yeah, that's probably not the best thing to do," Camila commented. She didn't want to get into who her dad was and why her mom's advice helped her, but she did want to share that helpful advice with him. "For what it's worth, my mom used to tell me to give people the benefit of the doubt until they prove otherwise. If you shut everyone out, you're always going to be alone."

Jackson seemed to seriously ponder her mom's advice. His demeanor seemed more uplifted when he replied. "Sounds like your mom is a smart woman."

"She was," Camila smiled, recalling all the great talks she had with her growing up.

"You know what's funny," Jackson chuckled briefly. "I just met you and I feel more connected to you than half the people out there."

Now, it was time for Camila to feel guilty. She liked Jackson's music and she enjoyed hanging out with him, but beyond finding him attractive, she only hooked up with him because he was famous and the rush it gave her. She felt compelled to tell him the truth. "I've had a great time hanging with you tonight, but I have to be honest. I had sex with you because you're cute and a singer."

Jackson's genuine laugh made her not regret her honesty. "I have to admit, that's one way I don't mind being used. I don't think any guy would mind being used by two beautiful women that way."

"Well, aren't you a contradiction," Camila giggled and playfully gave Jackson a little shove with her elbow.

"Sometimes."

"No seriously, you are. You act so different on stage and in the media. I half expected you to have a pet monkey backstage and be a raging alcoholic with a major chip on your shoulder." Camila embellished a little for humor, but her exaggeration wasn't that far off from what she expected. Just last year, the media made him out to be a rebellious guy who didn't think the rules applied to him because he was insanely rich and famous.

Jackson laughed loudly and then acted like he was contemplating his next superfluous purchase. "Hmm... a monkey. I wonder..."

Camila grinned and shook her head. She was happy his mood was improving and that it was because of her.

"Nah, seriously, I went through a pretty bad phase. I'll own up to it, but I just got tired of it all. I never got to be the dumb teenager who made mistakes and learned from them when my parents grounded me. You know? I learned by having it shoved in my face everytime I got online, tweeted, did an interview, or walked on stage. I hated that, so I figured out fast how to stop fucking up all the time."

Camila liked his honesty and it made sense. She nodded quietly.

"I'm really blessed to do what I do. When I finally realized that, I straightened up my act. No more bad boy," Jackson said with a brief shake of his head.

Looking at him in the dim light of the bedroom, he looked serene and sexy.

"I'd say not all the bad boy is gone," Camila replied with a raised eyebrow.

"Well," Jackson acknowledged with a heated gaze and caressed her thigh. "Maybe still a little bad in certain situations."

"I like that," she responded, meeting his gaze with her own desire. Despite all the events of the night since she first had him, she still wanted him again. It was senseless to deny the idea of having him to herself excited her beyond reason. She parted her thighs slightly in the invitation for his hand to travel further up her leg exposed by the opening of her robe.

"Me, too," he murmured before sliding his hand inside the plush velour and caressing her warm, naked skin.

Her lips parted at the sparks his touch seemed to ignite deep inside her. Jackson took advantage of the easy access to Camila's mouth and flicked his tongue inside. As their tongues caressed, Camila grasped his firm biceps. His heated skin made her long for him to cover her body with his. It was different kissing him this time. Without Britney joining in, it seemed more intimate, but she figured Jackson would prefer to have them both again.

"Should we try to wake up Britney?" Her whisper was seductive, her lips brushing against his as she spoke.

"No," Jackson answered while untying the sash around Camila's waist. "I want you."

Those words created an indescribable sense of excitement and satisfaction. Jackson Barstow wanted her, just her. His actions confirmed his statement as he gently opened the robe and gazed longingly at her naked body beneath. He pushed the robe back until it slipped off her shoulders. He then coaxed her to lie back on the bed. Camila complied, resting her head on the soft, down-filled pillow at the head of the bed.

She was exposed completely to him as he stared and slowly took off his t-shirt, jeans and boxer briefs. His lightly tanned skin seemed to glow in the dim light of the bedroom, except for the majority of his arms, which were covered in dark ink. She admired him as he did the same to her, slowly running his hands up her legs as he positioned his knees between her feet. The low lighting playing across his frame created shadows under every muscle and he had more than she realized. It was alluring as if every inch of his body was honed to make him look better naked. If that was the case, his personal trainer deserved a big pay raise.

She couldn't resist checking out his semi-hard cock, hanging between his legs. It grew larger as he leaned over her and kissed her flat stomach.

"I'm so glad you came back to the hotel with me," he murmured, his lips and hands trailing along her lower body. It made her pulse quicken. "I wanted to be with you again. You feel so good wrapped around me."

"I'm glad, too," she responded, her breath raspy as Jackson licked the outside of her bare pussy. Her lower body seemed to pulse up on its own accord to meet his tongue again.

Jackson smiled at her eager movement and gave her what she wanted. His tongue parted her flesh and tasted her slick heat. Camila moaned softly as he ran his tongue up and down her entire length. He urged her legs father open, allowing him to probe her deeper. The heat of his mouth on her drove her crazy and when he began to hum she swore she'd die of bliss. She tempered her moans of pleasure when she noticed a recognizable pattern to his humming.

She propped herself up on her elbows and stared at him in pleasurable disbelief. "Are you humming, 'Pretty Love?'"

Jackson didn't stop, he just met her gaze with one of boyish mischief. She had no doubt his nose brushing against her swollen clit when he nodded was deliberate. The jolt of pleasure made her head drop back to the pillow as she groaned loudly.

The man was humming his chart-topper from last year as he went down on her and if it didn't feel so damn good, she knew she'd break into a fit of laughter. Instead, she moaned in ecstasy as he brought her quickly to orgasm. He slipped a long finger inside her and massaged her intently as he continued the melody. Just when she was thinking he might feel better than her vibrator, he reached the crescendo of the song and she nearly passed out from the intensity of her climax. The waves of pleasure were so intense, she barely noticed him kissing his way up her body. He nibbled her pert breasts, but it just made her core vibrate more with pleasure. He kissed her lips tenderly as she weakly responded with her tongue.

"That good, huh?" He whispered conspiringly as he kissed her lips again.

As her body recovered, she kissed him more fervently, thanking him for the surreal bliss she just experienced. She eventually found her brain functioning again to give him a verbal response. "I'm never going to listen to that song the same way again."

"Good," Jackson smiled with satisfaction as he reached to the side table and grabbed a condom.

Camila just watched as he rolled it onto his thick cock. She still found its girth a delightful contrast to his slim frame. When he positioned himself over her, she found herself greatly anticipating him filling her once more. She helped guide him in as he held his body over hers.

He took it slow, stretching her inner muscles that were still slightly sore from their earlier tryst. She loved the feeling as he worked his way deep inside her. When he buried himself to the hilt, his body collapsed on top of hers. She wrapped her arms and legs around him, relishing his warmth as he slid in and out of her slick channel.

Their kiss matched the languid movement of his hips as he withdrew almost fully and plunged back deep into her depths. As each moment passed, their bodies became more consumed by lust and the movement quickened until their lips were desperate to cling to each other as he powered into her with all his strength.

"So... good," he gasped as he thrust deep inside her. She rocked her hips and brought her legs up and out to allow him deeper penetration. She wanted to feel every bit of him because she knew this really was her last chance, a once in a lifetime opportunity, to hook up with the famous singer.

She wanted the pleasure to last until the sun came up and Jackson seemed intent on giving her just that as he took her from behind, then the side, and then with her upper body hanging off the side of the bed. She finally discovered a facet of his personality that was the same as his on-stage presence. He never gave up, he never slowed down, and he didn't stop until she lost her voice from screaming his name.
Chapter 10

"Did you want something to eat before you go, Britney?" Jackson asked Camila's hungover friend as she joined them at the large marble dining table in the main room of the hotel suite. Jackson and Camila had been up for an hour drinking coffee, eating pastries from room service, and making idle conversation while waiting for Britney to wake up from her drunken stupor.

"Ugh, don't even talk to me about food right now. I don't care how hot you are," she mumbled as Camila slowly pushed a glass of water in front of her.

Camila and Jackson both chuckled and gave each other knowing looks as Britney took a sip of water.

"Jackson is having a limo take us back to my car at the arena. It'll be here in a few minutes," Camila explained to her friend as she took a sip of the coffee Jackson made them this morning. She didn't feel hung over like Britney did, but she was definitely tired and sore after the long sex session she had with Jackson.

"Man, I totally passed out last night. What happened?" Britney replied while glancing around the suite. Everyone else left sometime during the early morning hours, but Camila never noticed when.

The main room was littered with a several empty glasses and a couple of empty liquor bottles, but the serene silence was definitely preferable to the noisy crowd that inhabited the space hours ago. After getting to know Jackson, she imagined he preferred the early morning silence as well. The quiet was soon broken by the hotel suite's phone ringing. Jackson picked it up on the second ring.

"I'll tell you about it later," Camila whispered to her friend as Jackson spoke briefly on the phone.

Britney nodded curiously and then announced she had to use the ladies room and left.

"The limo is ready downstairs whenever you are," Jackson said, looking at Camila with a slightly awkward expression.

She understood why he felt so awkward. Normally, after a night like last night, there's an exchange of phone numbers or a "let's do it again sometime." That wasn't an option in their case. She had no false hopes of something developing between them, so she decided to make it easy on him.

"Last night was amazing. Thank you," she responded in a carefree manner. "I hope you have a safe trip home and a great vacation in Tahiti."

"Thanks, I will," Jackson replied, he seemed very relieved. She imagined most of his casual flings made a big deal about wanting to see him again. It would be nice, but she saw last night for what it was, a great one night stand. "It was pretty amazing."

Britney walked up behind him, only catching his last couple of words. "If you're talking about our sexcapade in the dressing room, hell yeah, it was fucking amazing."

They all laughed at her brazen comment as they said their goodbyes. Jackson gave each of them a brief kiss on the lips as he opened the door to the suite. It was shorter goodbye than what Camila wanted, but very appropriate.

"Take care and remember my mom's advice," Camila offered as she stepped out in the hall after Britney.

"Take care yourself and I will. Trust me," Jackson smiled genuinely. With a final bye, he closed the door and the friends boarded the elevator.

After taking the limo back to the arena, driving Britney back to her apartment in West Hollywood, and fielding her seemingly endless questions about last night, Camila was exhausted by the time she got home. She was thankful her dad had left earlier that morning to play golf so she could go straight to bed to catch up on some much-needed sleep.

Curled up under her designer duvet, she thought about her insane luck on Friday. It was a night that she'd never forget for many reasons. Jackson's humming between her thighs, making out with Britney, Jackson singing to her on stage and in bed, the roar of the crowded arena, Britney going down on her, Jackson taking her over and over again... The list went on and on.

She couldn't stop herself from also recalling her dad's words last night. If they haven't noticed your talent yet, they never will. His words echoed in her head more than any of the lyrics in Jackson's songs. She wondered why, but the truth was staring her in the face. As much as she loved wild nights, she wanted to make something of herself more. She wanted to succeed, not just in games of chance or when the odds were against her, but in life.

She thought she'd be able to do that in advertising. That's why she got the degree, but now that she had it, it seemed to come up short for her. She wanted more, she wanted to create more, to create something bigger and more memorable. How could she have that impact?

As she drifted off to sleep, she willed herself to stop thinking about her future on a Saturday morning and instead dream of Jackson Barstow's kiss. She promised herself she would think seriously about her future come Monday. However, her subconscious didn't echo Jackson's adoring words or lips. Instead, another comment from her father sung her to sleep. I could use you on set for my next film.

The End

Afterword

Thank you so much for reading this book! If you enjoyed it, please take a minute to leave a review. Those reviews are a huge help for us Indie authors!

Be sure to read the other two books in The Celeb Hookups series. Camilla has more steamy surprises and drama in her future!

I also invite you to check out my full-length novels, the Love for Series. It's an erotic tale about a love triangle between a makeup artist, her trainer, and her celebrity crush. I dare you to pick a favorite guy in that passion and drama filled story! You can check out all my novels here.

To be the first to find out about my latest projects, please like my page www.facebook.com/loveforseries. I'll be posting updates on there, as well as excerpts from my novels! You can also contact me at staceyhagaauthor@gmail.com or follow me on Instagram – staceyhagaauthor.

Thanks so much again for reading!

About the Author

Stacey Haga lives in Maryland with her husband, Derrick, and their two cats, Kitkat and Sassy. However, her heart and mind are permanent residents of Florida and she's counting the days until she moves back! She is an Air Force Veteran and her husband still serves. Besides writing, Stacey has a passion for shopping, working out and reading. She's been known to do all three hobbies at the same time! She also loves to travel and has lived several places in the United States and Iceland.

