
Seth

The Brothers' Chronicles, Volume 1

Michael Lee Ables Jr.

Published by Michael Lee Ables Jr., 2018.
This is a work of fiction. Similarities to real people, places, or events are entirely coincidental.

SETH

**First edition. July 17, 2018.**

Copyright (C) 2018 Michael Lee Ables Jr..

ISBN: 978-1386302636

Written by Michael Lee Ables Jr..

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

# Table of Contents

Title Page

Copyright Page

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

Chapter Eight

Chapter Nine

Chapter Ten

Chapter Eleven

Chapter Twelve

Chapter Thirteen

Chapter Fourteen

Chapter Fifteen

Chapters Sixteen

Chapter Seventeen

Chapter Eighteen

Chapter Nineteen

Chapter Twenty

Chapter Twenty-One

Chapter Twenty-two

Chapter Twenty-Three

Also By Michael Lee Ables Jr.

About the Author

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter One

Jason sat his bag on his desk and took a seat. He looked at all the notes and took a deep breath.

"What's wrong with these people?" he asked himself. "Don't they know how to use a computer." He pulled his tablet out of his bag and started sending out emails. When he sent the last one, he stood walking over to the first problem. He showed the first man, who was middle-aged, how to access his email, then he went to the next. The morning dragged by as he went from person to person helping them. He finally made it back to his desk right before lunch, and his cell phone rang not long after.

"You have to come now!" his brother yelled over the phone, almost crying.

"Sam, what's going on?" he asked.

"It's Mom. She's sick and has been admitted to the hospital. The doctors won't tell me anything." Jason immediately stood while shoving his things back into his bag.

"I'll be there shortly," he said and hung up. He walked over and told the receptionist he had to leave, then he hurried to the garage. Sam met Jason at the hospital entrance.

"Have they said anything?" Sam shook his head. Jason looked him over. His clothes were baggy, his hair shaggy. "Come on." They walked up to the receptionist. "Hi, my mom was brought in a while ago, and I want to know what's going on?"

The woman looked at him. "Have a seat, and I'll let you know when I know something."

Jason grinned, shaking his head. "If you check your records you will see that I'm my mother's power of attorney, and I have the right to know what's going on. Now, why don't you go and find out; or better still, take me to her."

At that, the woman turned around motioning for a nurse to come.

"This man wants to know what's going on with his mom. Can you take him to her room?" Puzzled, she looked at Sam and back at the nurse. "It's the real sick one, Sara."

The nurse looked at them. "Come with me."

Jason turned to Sam. "Sit down. I'll be back shortly."

Jason followed the woman down the hall. "What's wrong with our mom?"

The nurse stopped to look at him. "I think the doctor should answer that question." She pointed at a door and left. Jason opened it and walked in. In the room, he found several nurses whose eyes were fixated on the monitors and writing stuff down.

The man, who was observing in the corner of the room, saw Jason. "Can I help you?"

Jason looked at his mom and walked over to the man. "She's my mom; what's going on?"

"Why don't we talk outside."

Subsequently, Jason followed the man out into the hall. "She's very sick, young man. Her heart rate is too high; I'm afraid it's going to fail." The doctor looked at him. "Is she on drugs, young man?"

Jason grimaced and shook his head. "She would never!"

The doctor looked confused. "Well, we will know more after we have run some more tests. For now, what I can tell you is that she's very sick, and you need to prepare yourself for the worst," the doctor said and walked back into the room.

Jason walked out into the hall as his brother ran up to him.

"What's going on?"

Jason sat down. "The doctor says she's very sick and we need to prepare for the worst."

Sam fell into the chair next to him. "It doesn't make sense; she was fine after school. She was making supper and just collapsed." Sam stood up. "I want to see her."

Jason, too, stood taking his brother to her room. He pushed the door open and let him enter. There was only one nurse in the room.

"You're family?" she asked.

Jason nodded. "We're her boys."

Sam sat next to the bed and took his mom's hand.

She slowly opened her eyes to look at them. "You're here," she said looking up at Jason, who moved closer. "I have to talk to the both of you," she said. "Alone!" Jason turned to look at the woman who smiled and left. "There's so much I need to tell the two of you, but there's no time."

She motioned for Jason to come closer and rested her hand on the side of his face. "Don't be afraid," she said. Afterward, a faint glow filled the room. Jason's eyes closed as his mother's memories filled his head. She slowly lowered her hand. "You two are destined to do amazing things. The world needs you."

She then looked at Sam. "Jason is all you have; he's your brother and your partner." She held out her hand to the both of them and squeezed their hands while pulling them toward one another. As they touched, their hands gave off a red glow. "Together you are unstoppable," she continued, then she let go. Afterward, she turned to Jason saying, "my memories will explain everything."

--------

"What's going on?" Jason asked confused.

His mom smiled. "I'm dying, just like my mother and her mother. When I'm gone, you two will be able to start your lives as one, as the saviors you are. Magic has always been in our family. It gives us strength, but it's also our curse." She coughed trying to set up. "Promise me you will take care of each other."

Jason nodded looking at his brother. "I don't understand any of this. Magic isn't real," Jason said.

She looked up into his eyes and smiled. "It's very real, and you two are very powerful." She looked at Sam. "Jason knows what has to be done. Promise me you will listen to him, and you will be at his side."

Sam nodded and started crying. "You will get better."

His mom smiled shaking her head, and as she did, the machines went wild. They all went off, sounding and flashing continuously. The door burst open with doctors and nurses rushing in.

"You two need to go!" someone said to them.

Jason reached for Sam, and they exited the room. "We'll be alright," he said as he looked at Sam.

They turned as a doctor came their way. He has a groom look on his face. "I'm sorry, but she's gone," the doctor said looking at them.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Two

Jason pulled up to their mom's house.

"Come on," he said as he turned off the ignition and went to the apartment's door. He opened it and waited for Sam to go inside. The two walked to the basement.

"What are we looking for? There's nothing down here but junk, there never has been," Sam said.

Jason looked around. "There wouldn't be, especially if they wanted to keep it from us." He walked over to a wall, which appeared different from the others. He looked at the single light switch and pulled it down. This prompted a rumble after which a hidden door swung open. He directed his gaze toward Sam and stepped inside. He looked at the large room. Inside, there were rows of books while more shelves with bottles, candles, crystals, and all kinds of magic things were along the walls.

"What is all of this?" Sam asked as he picked up a bottle and looked at some eyeballs.

"Our history," Jason answered and pointed at a huge book. Their last name was printed on its cover. Jason opened the first page and studied it. He was soon joined by Sam, and the two started to read.

Magic and power are buried in our family's history. From the beginning, two males born to the family bore the responsibility to keep the world safe. With the power of the brothers comes great risk. Evil will seek you out, so it's imperative you leave no witnesses and keep your identity a secret. The box to the side contains two rings. You both need to touch the box at the same time to open it. I love you my sons, Mom.

Jason looked at Sam. "Together?" He held out his hand, and they touched the box. The lid opened. Inside the box were two silver rings, and each had a stone: one red and the other blue. Jason took the blue one and slipped it on and watched as Sam put on the red one. They stood looking at one another.

"What did you think was going to happen?" Sam asked his brother. "We were going to get magical powers and save the world? Mom was sick." When he turned to leave, Jason reached out his hand and grabbed him. The contact instantly shook the room. They were soon covered in a glowing yellow light. Jason tried to pull his hand away from Sam, but he couldn't. Both their eyes shut as electricity ran through them. They both screamed. Seconds later, they hit the floor. Jason tried to stand, but his knees were weak.

"What the hell?" Sam said.

Jason stood leaning up against the wall. He looked down at his hands as they trembled. "Our legacy," he said looking at his brother. "Can you feel it? Can you feel the power?"

Sam got to his feet shaking his head. "You're delusional; there is no power."

He started to walk away when Jason grabbed him again. "How do you explain what just happened?"

Sam looked around the room and then at some water on the floor. Then he pointed at it. "Static electricity."

Jason shook his head as his brother climbed the stairs to leave.

He walked over and sat down at the book. Something happened, something strange. He could feel it; he felt different.

The next morning, Jason was awakened by screaming. He ran to Sam's room and found him levitating, stuck at the ceiling. He smiled looking at him. "Is this static electricity too?"

Sam pulled off the ring and threw it. He slammed onto the bed and sat up. "What has she done to us?" He stood, picking up the ring inspecting it. "It's really magic?"

Jason smiled. "Kind of cool, huh? Come on, let's go and see what else is in the book."

The two went back to the basement. Jason turned the pages and stopped at a page about their protector and healer. "What do you think? If we're going to be fighting evil, it won't hurt to have someone watching our backs." They followed the directions and set up the urn the spell required. Sam lit the candles, and they looked over the directions again.

Jason nodded. "I think we have it." He said holding out his hand. Just as they touched, their rings glowed brightly.

As Jason read out the spell, the urn started to glow. A bright white light filled the room. And they continued holding hands until the liquid in the urn rose and floated behind them. They watched as it took shape.

"Mom?" asked Sam. She smiled at them rushing forward.

"How?" Jason questioned, rather puzzled.

She hugged him and picked up the book. "It's what us mothers do: we die and then are raised to protect our sons." She handed the book to Jason. "Now, study this; read through the whole thing. Something dark is coming, and it's coming soon." She started to glow again.

"Are you leaving? Where are you going?" asked Sam. "Please, don't go; we need you."

She smiled at him, blowing him a kiss. "I will be there when you need me," she said and then vanished.

Jason looked over at Sam. "Well, come on. We'll order Chinese and do as she asked."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Three

For the next few weeks, Sam and Jason studied the book. They also practiced their magic together. Their power was stronger when they were close to one another.

Jason held out his hand and grabbed Sam's. The contact made the glow in the room brighter.

Sam pulled away and sat down, wiping his brow. "I'm so tired." He then looked over at the urn. "Why doesn't she come back?"

"She said she would come when we needed her. Now, come here so we can finish this page," Jason answered.

Sam stood, shaking his head. "I'm too tired; I want a shower. Besides, I have a date later." He turned running up the stairs.

Jason shook his head and closed the book. He went to his room and took a shower. He laid down on the bed and pulled out his laptop. He stood going to the window and watched as Sam left. His computer beeped. It was a message, which made him smile -- Cindy was coming over. Cheerfully, he responded to her message. She'd said she would be over in fifteen minutes. He immediately picked up his phone and ordered some Chinese food, then he headed downstairs. When the doorbell rang, he quickly answered it. It was his delivery. He paid for the food and shut the door. Moments later, the bell rang again. This time, it was Cindy, who rushed in and kissed him.

"So, you're living in your mom's house?" she asked as he closed the door.

"Sam's still underage and wanted to stay here."

She smiled at him while pulling him close. "It's been a week since..." She trailed off, letting her hands slip down his sweats.

"I know," he said. He pressed his lips to hers, and she backed off toward the table and started to open the cartons of food. Jason grabbed a couple of plates and sat down. They talked about work and ate. When they were done, they set aside the food.

She took his hand. "Where's your room?"

He led her to his room. She slammed the door shut and pushed him onto the bed. Jason sat up and pulled on his shorts as his door burst open. Sam stood gawking at Cindy as Jason pushed him out of his room.

"Oh, right, man, you got laid," Sam said. Jason wiped his eyes.

"What's your deal, Sam? You can't just burst into my room."

Sam took a step back. "Sorry, man, won't bother you again."

Jason followed Sam downstairs. "There's some left-over Chinese in the fridge." They both turned as Cindy came down the stairs wearing Jason's shirt.

Sam stopped to take a good look at her, staring her up and down.

"Who's this?" she asked laying her head on Jason's shoulder.

"This is my little brother, Sam."

She held out her hand. "Nice to meet you, little brother."

Sam shook her hand and sat several Chinese cartons on the table. "Great, I'm starving," he said with a grin as he grabbed a couple of plates.

"I'm going to grab a shirt," Jason turned running back upstairs. When he returned, Cindy and Sam were eating and talking.

"You work with Jason?" Sam asked. Cindy nodded taking a bite. "Um, how long have you two been having sex?"

Jason took a seat with them and dished some food on his plate. He looked at Cindy. "A year?" he said.

She smiled nodding happily.

Sam leaned back patting his stomach. "Bedtime!" he said, standing and running up the stairs.

Jason turned to Cindy. "Sorry about that."

She pressed her lips to his and got up. "Ready for round two?"

The following morning, Jason and Cindy showered and went downstairs. Jason stopped when he perceived the smell of coffee and frying bacon. He walked into the kitchen, which had been cleaned and tidied, and found Sam busy cooking.

"What's going on?"

Sam turned and looked at them. "I just thought you would like a nice breakfast before work?"

Jason shook his head and sat down. "I can't leave you all day."

Sam smiled. "I'm going back to school," he said picking up his bag. "Have a good day." At that, he took his leave.

Jason walked over to the stove and looked at the eggs and bacon. He then turned to Cindy just as her lips pressed to his. Jason stretched out, running his hand up and down her arm.

"Shouldn't we go to work?" she turned smiling.

"If that's what you want."

Cindy grabbed her bag and waited for Jason, and then they were off.

In the car, Cindy rested her hand on his leg. "I really missed you. It's been a long two weeks."

He smiled nodding. "It has, I've missed you too."

Jason pulled into a spot and turned off the car. "Why don't you stay the weekend? You know, get to know Sam."

She smiled kissing him. "I'd like that. Come on, before we're late."

The day went by slow. Jason kept checking the clock. He didn't want to be here. He picked up the phone to answer a customer's call -- but as he hung up, everything went black. He looked up at the clock that had now stopped ticking. He turned around and then stood up. There was a loud crack as the darkness started to clear. A hooded figure walked toward him. Jason trembled as the figure came closer.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Four

Jason backed up as the figure approached him. A burnt smell filled the room.

"We meet, finally!" the figure said.

"Who are you?" asked Jason.

The man raised his hands as a fireball formed. "I'm your undoing, young man -- yours and the worlds. I'm the end of times." The fireball grew and grew. The mysterious man laughed and drew back his hand, ready to throw it. A bright light instantly formed in front of Jason -- his mom.

She turned to look at him. "Run!"

He shook his head.

She then turned back to the man. "Leave, Seth, while you can and take your borrowed magic."

The man laughed. "You don't have the power to stop me; you're just a protector, Sara! I was there when your father and his brother took power, and your brothers." He grinned. "And I ended them all. The stars are now aligned, and it's time for my army to come forward. It's time for demons to rule again."

Sara glowed brightly making a shield between them, and Seth took a step back. "Your mom couldn't stop me," Seth continued. "You're already weakening, I'd save the power to heal Jason if there's anything left after I'm done with him."

Sara turned to look at Jason. "Go, I can't keep this up." Jason shook his head.

"What's going on?" asked Sam, as he walked in looking at his mom and ran to her. Jason immediately stopped him.

"Go, get out of here." Sam looked at the hooded man.

"Who's that?" he asked while stepping to his brother's side.

"Well, it must be my day -- both brothers here together and undisciplined." As Seth threw the fireball, Sam quickly reached over and grabbed Jason's hand. A portal opened to their right, and he pulled his brother into it. They landed in the basement.

Jason looked at Sam. "What were you doing there?" he asked. "You could have been killed!"

"It's a good thing he was there," Sara answered as she appeared. "Seth is too powerful for you to take on right now." They watched as their mom smiled at them.

"Who is he?" asked Jason.

"He told you who he was: He's the end of times. Our family has been fighting him for a very long time. We've only slowed him down." She walked over to a shelf and took down a book and handed it to Jason. "Everything we know is there, read it." She backed off and disappeared.

Jason turned to Sam and held out his hand. "Some cool moves, bro."

Sam smiled and leaned against the table. "Is Cindy coming over tonight?"

Jason looked at his watch. "Later on. Thank goodness this didn't happen while everyone was still working." He then took the book and headed upstairs. "By the way, how did you know how to open a portal?"

Sam shrugged. "It was instinct; I thought it, and it happened."

Jason looked at his ring. "Hmm. There's so much we don't know." He turned, going upstairs. He looked around their house and went straight to his room. He showered and laid down on the bed and started reading through the notes his family had written.

"A penny for your thoughts," a voice announced. Jason looked up and found Cindy standing in his doorway. She walked into the room and laid down next to him. "Sam let me in. He was a gentleman." She then leaned in and kissed him. "So... what are we doing tonight?"

He ran his hand down her leg. "What do you want to do?"

She stood, holding out her hand. "Let's go out."

Jason stood but shook his head. "I don't think I should leave Sam here by himself."

She took a step closer to him. "That's fine. He can come with us." She pulled him downstairs and into the kitchen. "Hey, you want to go out with us?"

Sam stood up. "Where?"

Jason looked at Cindy. "Anywhere you want to go." Jason said.

Sam smiled. "Um, can we go to the Roundup for dinner?"

Cindy shrugged. "If that's where you want to go."

Jason shook his head. "I don't think that's a good idea; it's half bar."

Cindy turned to him. "We'll be there with him. We'll have dinner, and we can dance." She came in close and pressed her lips to his.

Jason looked at Sam. "Well then, go and get ready."

The three arrived at the Roundup grill and took seats at a table. They ordered and looked around. Sam sat quietly watching the girls come and go. He turned to look at Jason and Cindy, who were busy kissing. "Please, get a room," he said as a blond passed by.

She turned to look at Sam and smiled at him. He fixed his eyes on her as she walked on. After they ate, Jason and Cindy went dancing.

Sam was watching them when the blond woman returned and sat beside him. "You here all alone, honey?" He nodded. "You want to dance?" she asked, and then stood up and held out her hand. Jason watched as Sam joined them on the dance floor with the girl.

Cindy smiled. "It's OK. Let him have some fun, I need to go to the bathroom." Jason kissed her while keeping his eyes on Sam. The music slowed, and Jason looked around. He glimpsed Sam walking out the front door with the blond woman. He looked toward the bathroom for Cindy and took off after Sam. Outside, he looked around, hoping to find his baby brother, but no luck.

"Shit, where did he go?" Jason closed his eyes and could envision them running down an alley. He walked up onto a bent over the figure and spotted a woman. He grabbed her by the hair, pulling her off what turned out to be Sam. The woman tore away, and Jason stepped back. Her eyes were glowing.

Sam was in pain and stood up. He held his neck as blood dripped from it. "She bit me!" At lightning speed, the woman lunged toward Jason, knocking him against the wall. He quickly got to his feet and tried to grab her before she got back to Sam. But before he could, the woman turned around and knocked him back against the wall. When he stood up, the woman had Sam again and was about to sink her teeth into him. Jason clenched his fists and felt a burning sensation. He sprang toward her and grabbed her arm. This time, she screamed at his sizzling touch.

She backed away hissing at him. "Seth won't be happy you hurt me." She turned and ran off. Jason bent down to help Sam up. As they both stood, Sara appeared before them. She walked up to Sam and touched him. His wounds healed, then she stepped back. She smiled at them and disappeared.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Five

Cindy met them at the car.

"Where have you been? I have been looking all over for you two," she asked as Jason helped Sam to the car. Cindy spotted the stain of blood on Sam's shirt. "Oh my God, what happened to him?"

"The woman he was dancing with went crazy," Jason responded as Sam slid into the backseat.

--------

When they returned home, Jason watched Sam run upstairs.

"What really happened?" Cindy asked again. Jason turned around locking the door. He took her hand and turned off all the lights.

"The girl just went crazy," he repeated as he led her to his room.

Moments later, Jason was strangely awakened. He looked up and found his mom standing at the foot of the bed. She pointed at the door and disappeared. He got up quietly and pulled on his pajama pants and headed to the basement. Sam was already there with Sara.

"What's going on?" Jason asked as he walked in.

His mom hugged him. "She's a nice girl."

Jason smiled looking at the book Sam had. "Vampires?" asked Jason.

Sara nodded. "I'm afraid so. Seth has summoned many dark monsters to attack you two. I don't know how much longer you can stay here."

Jason turned to look at her. "We have to leave?"

She frowned. "Until he's dealt with," Sara answered with a grim look on her face. "No one in our family has been able to defeat him. He's powerful, and when he unleashed hell on earth, his followers will start their slaughter. What humans they don't kill would be kept for food or turned to breeders or slaves. We've never found anything to help us against him."

Out of nowhere, the sound of breaking glass filtered in, interrupting them. They all turned to find Cindy standing there in the door looking at them, her eyes were agape. "Jason, what's going on!?" she asked.

He went to her and took her hand. "Come on, I'll explain everything."

Sara grabbed his arm. "Please, let me." Her glow receded, and she took Cindy by the hand and led her upstairs.

Jason walked to Sam. "Are you OK?" he nodded and continued reading the book. "Are you sure?"

He stood up. "Why am I the one always getting hurt? Why are you the one with the hot girl, getting laid every night?" Sam took off up the stairs.

Jason sat down and read the pages on the vampires. He looked up at his mom as she appeared. "How is she?"

Sara smiled. "She will be fine. And she won't remember seeing anything."

Jason stood. "What do you mean?"

She walked up to him. "Jason, I wiped her memory. It's much safer for her that way.  You can tell her if you want, but the information would put her in danger."

Jason sat back down. "This isn't fair, Mom. She loves me. She should know who I really am."

Sara sat beside him. "It's going to get worse, Jason. You can't stay here. Pack what you can and leave. Don't stay in the same place for long." She walked over and handed him a book. "You will find addresses of safe houses here all over the world. I have to go now, but you need to leave soon, and you need to talk to Sam."

Jason watched as his mom disappeared. He looked at the book Sara had given him. The book had addresses and bank account numbers. He stood to go upstairs and proceeded to Sam's room and knocked on the door.

"Go away!" Sam answered.

Jason opened the door and entered the room. He then sat on the bed.

"Sam, I'm sorry you got hurt, and I'm sorry you haven't found someone to be with."

Sam sat up. "I thought she really liked me. She told me she did."

Jason stood. "Mom says we have to leave." He turned around holding up the book. "There are places we can go, safe houses. Pack some of your things, we should leave tomorrow."

Sam stood. "Leave? What about my friends and school?"

Jason walked toward him. "Mom said it's going to get worse. We have to get ready; we have to figure out how to beat Seth." Sam nodded.

Jason left and went to his room.

Cindy was sitting on the bed. "Where have you been?" she asked.

Jason sat down next to her. "I was downstairs. Are you OK?" she smiled standing up and pulling off her shirt. Jason, too, got up and turned off the light.

The next morning, Jason woke up and packed some of his things into a bag. Before he left, he took one long look at Cindy, who was still asleep, laying there under his sheets. His eyes then went to the envelope he'd placed on his pillow. Quietly, he shut the door and headed downstairs.

"Are you ready?" he asked Sam, who nodded.

"I packed all the books I thought we would need," Sam pointed out.

Jason opened the door. He turned around and looked up the stairs and around their home. Afterward, he locked the door and headed to the car.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Six

They drove for six hours until the came upon a large stone house. Jason got out and watched as Sam gawked.

"Where did all of these places come from?" asked Sam.

Jason shrugged. "I don't know, come on." They walked up to the door and knocked.

A woman answered the door. "Hello, can I help you?" she asked.

"Hi, I'm Jason, and this is my brother, Sam."

The woman smiled. "I've been expecting you, please, come on in," she said stepping to the side.

The two brothers walked in looking at the interior of the quaint house.

"Your mom told me you would be coming." Jason turned to look at the woman as she spoke. "My name is Helen, and I'm the keeper of this house," she said and motioned for them to follow her. "Come, I'll show you to your rooms. You must be tired." When they reached the top of the stairs, she stopped at a room. "Sam, this one is yours. I hope you like it." She then motioned for Jason to follow her. Helen stopped at another door and opened it. "Let me know if you need anything." She smiled and left. Jason walked in and sat down on the bed. The room was bigger than his room back home and has a stocked bathroom. Subsequently, he unpacked his bag and then left the room to see his brother. He knocked on Sam's door and entered.

At the time, Sam was pulling on his pants. "What the hell, man?"

Jason turned around facing the door. "Sorry!" he said as he took a deep breath.

"OK, what do you want?" Sam asked.

Jason walked over and sat down on the bed. He watched as Sam dried his hair. "I'm sorry we had to leave. This isn't what I wanted for you."

Sam shrugged throwing the towel on a dresser. "It is what it is." Sam sat down and pulled on his boots. "I'm hungry; do you think there's food in this place?" They walked downstairs when Helen appeared.

"This way," Helen said leading them through a small hall and into a dining room. Two plates of steaming food sat across from each other. Jason and Sam sat down and started to eat. "You two look like your father," she remarked.

Sam stopped eating and looked at her. "You knew our dad?"

She nodded sitting down at the end of the table. She took a bite and looked at them. "He was a marvelous man and knew his magic pretty well. He was exceptionally clever with protection spells, like the one that protects this very house."

When they were done eating, she led them to the basement. Inside, weapons lined the walls with many bookcases. "He was sure there was some weapon out there that could stop Seth. She walked over and pulled down a book and handed it to Sam. "He kept lots of journals on his travels and fights." She pointed at rows and rows of books. "The others belong to his brothers." Helen turned and started to leave, but then she stopped to say something: "I've seen what Seth can do, and I've seen him destroy families. I know you're new to all of this, but if anyone can beat him, it would be you two." She then turned and left.

They studied the diaries of their father and uncle.

Frustrated, Jason pushed them away. "How the hell are we supposed to beat this thing when we don't know how?"

Sam slid a book in front of him. "There's something out there, but no one knows where or what it is."

Jason stood, laughing. "That helps a lot, Sam."

Hours later, Helen returned to the room and found it in a mess -- books sat opened or piled up on two tables.

"You have been busy," she said as she sat down.

Jason leaned against a table. "How are we supposed to stop this?"

Helen took the book Sam was holding. "There's something out there: a weapon powerful enough to stop Seth.

Jason shook his head. "What difference does it make? No one knows what this weapon is or where to find it."

Helen got up from her seat and handed the book to him. "Your father and uncles said it's out there. You just have to figure out where." On her way out, she paused. "Find out more about Seth; hunt like your father and uncle did. Make his cronies talk. And if you can't find the rumored weapon, maybe you can make your own weapon to defeat him." She then smiled and left.

Jason stood up pushing the books away. "It's useless; there's nothing here." He then leaned back to stretch.

"There's plenty here," Sam retorted as he slid a book over to Jason.  "We just have to interpret what Dad was talking about," he added.

Jason read the notes. "He was writing protective spells to keep something in." Jason looked up at him. "To trap Seth?" Sam stood shrugging his shoulders. "If we can't defeat him, why not trap him? I'm going to bed."

He watched as Sam left. Jason picked up his father's book and headed upstairs too.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Seven

Jason sat up in bed. He looked at the many books and papers that had been scattered all over his bed. Someone knocked, and he looked up at the door.

"Come in," he answered.

Sam entered and sat on the bed. "What are you doing? We've been here a month. Have you turned on the TV? People are disappearing."

Jason got up to get a shirt and started putting it on. "I know, but we're not ready."

Sam walked over to him. "Yes, we're not ready to take on Seth, but we could stop some of his cronies."

Jason sat down and pulled on his boots. "OK, I think your right. It's time we see how much we've learned." He then grabbed his jacket. "Come on."

The two of them sat in the bar. Jason slid Sam a coke and took a drink of his beer. They watched as a nicely dressed man in the corner huddled with a girl. They finally stood and left.

As they exited, they heard a scream down the street. "Come on!" said Jason.

The two brothers hurried toward the direction the scream came from. But they were too late. The lady was already dead, and the man was standing over her body.

He looked at them smiling. "Who wants to go first? I like my dessert first." He growled as he kicked the woman to the side. Jason stepped forward, and the vampire lunged toward him. Jason called his magic forth. His hands glowed bright blue as he grabbed the vampire who shrieked at his touch. The vampire pushed Jason off him and to the side and looked at Sam. "I get it. You're the brothers." He laughed. "We thought you two are too chicken to face us."

Sam pulled out a chain and wound it around his wrist. The chain glowed green. When the vampire rushed him, Sam let the chain uncoil and slung it, letting it wrap around the vampire. He watched as the vampire hit the ground convulsing.

"Good job!" Jason walked up looking at the vampire. "Is that one of Dad's spells?"

"It's one of grandpa's."

"Good job."

"Yes, very good job. Deg is one of my best men." They turned to see a tall man walking toward them. "I knew you would turn up sooner or later. You brothers always do. I've contacted Seth; he knows where you are now." The vampire laughed. "The end is coming, brothers. Soon, there will be no light for you to hide in." The vampire knocked Sam back against a wall. Jason watched as he slid to the ground barely moving. Jason gritted his teeth as the vampire turned to him. "They call me Tirk, and Deg here is one of my children," he continued. Jason let his hands glow. Tirk bared his teeth, shaking his head. "I'm not here to kill you; I'm here to warn you. We don't want to hurt you. Just turn your backs and let the thing unfold -- live a little longer."

Jason let out a laugh and watched as Sam walked up next to him. They clasped hands, and Tirk backed away as the alley lit brightly. Tirk turned to run, but Jason stopped him with a magical force field. Tirk turned around snarling at him. His fangs extended and his eyes glowed. "Fine, have it your way, but Seth won't be happy." He ran towards them. Jason nodded at Sam who opened a portal. Tirk screamed as he entered and disappeared.

"Where did you send him?"

Sam smiled bending down looking at Deg. "The middle of the Pacific. It will take him some time to get back."

Jason bent down and grabbed Deg. "Open a portal back to the house." Sam nodded taking Deg's feet.

"Leaving so soon?" They turned to find Seth standing down the alley with several people at his side. "Where's Tirk?" he asked.

"Open it now." Sam opened a portal and Jason pushed him inside, leaving Deg.

Jason turned to look at Seth. "You're not going to win this."

Seth laughed. "It's already happening, brother. While you have been hiding, my followers are turning and taking many humans every day."

Jason gritted his teeth. "Don't worry, we'll stop you."

The man to Seth's right charged at Jason. Jason stepped to the side and set the vampire on fire. Seth watched as the second figure ran toward Jason. Jason stood calmly until the woman was right in front of him. He raised his hands and touched her, letting the force of fire engulf her. The woman screamed as she turned into ash, and he dusted off her remains.

Seth clapped. "You've been learning I see."

Sam walked out of the portal and tugged on Jason's arm. "Come on!" Seth lunged toward Jason before he made away, but Sam was quick to drag him into the portal before he reached him.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Eight

The portal took them back to the basement of the house.

Helen looked at them as they appeared. "Dinner is ready," she said.

Sam hungrily ran past them, to the kitchen, prompting Jason to shake his head.

"We caught one of Seth's vampires but had to leave him behind. Seth showed up," Jason informed her. "We should talk about moving on. Seth knows we are here now." Jason said.

They sat down and started to eat.

"Where will we go?" Helen asked.

Jason looked around. "I don't know yet, but it has to be somewhere far away."

After they ate, Helen gathered their plates. "I know just the place." In the basement, she opened the book their mom had given them with the safe houses and pointed one out.

Jason and Sam looked at the address. "That's halfway around the world," Sam said.

Helen smiled. "Yes, and with Seth being here, it's the safest place you can hole up in. It would give you more time to work on your magic and study the rest of the journals."

They spent the next few hours packing with the TV switched on. At some point, Jason started tuning the channels. He stopped when he came across a news reporting on how people have been disappearing.

"He's stepped up his attack; he knows we're here." Jason paced back and forth. "We have to do something before we leave."

Helen, who had been sitting on one of the armchairs, doesn't fancy the idea as she stood shaking her head. "You need to train more. You still don't know how to stop him."

Jason turned facing Sam, not minding Helen's protest. "We're going to trap him. Now's the best time to test it the cage -- we'll use it on one of his cronies." Then, he turned to Helen. "I want you to take the books and our supplies to the new house. We'll join you when we're done."

She nodded.

"Sam, let's get ready," Jason said.

Sam opened a portal that took them out into the town. It was chaos; people were in disarray.

"Set up the cage here. We'll lure them back." Sam nodded dropping his bag and started making the cage.

When through, he stood beside his brother. "Now what?" he asked.

"Now, I go hunting; you hide yourself and stay here. And be ready to stun them." Sam nodded and cloaked himself, disappearing. Jason walked down the street and stopped as his neck hairs tingled -- someone or something was trailing him. He picked up his pace and smiled as whatever had been following him kept up. Jason steered to his right, heading back to Sam. The creeper was now getting closer. He stopped at a garbage can and stopped turning around. "What do you want?"

The thing, which turned out to be a vampire, smiled, baring its fangs. "Dinner!" It charged toward Jason who let the fire go to his hands and stepped to the side. Jason grabbed the vampire by the neck. It screamed as Sam appeared. Together, Jason and Sam pushed it into the concealed prison.

Sam turned to Jason. "That didn't take long?"

Jason shook his head. "Stay hidden and be ready for the next one." Sam disappeared once again, and Jason took off, walking down the street. As he strolled, he listened for movements. He came across an empty parking lot and stopped to look around it. That was when he heard footfalls coming from all around. He took a deep breath -- he has been surrounded.

"You must be the eldest brother," a beautiful woman announced and started walking toward Jason. She looked him up and down and inhaled. "Sweet thing, you are," she said opening her mouth and letting her fangs extend.

A man walked up beside her. "Seth wants them alive," he said.

She growled pushing him back. "What's a little taste?" she said and turned back to Jason.

Jason conjured the fire within him, letting it engulf him; his hands, right up his shoulders, lit with fire. "Come on!" he yelled.

The woman laughed and then knocked his feet from under him. His magic dematerialized as he tried to catch his breath.

She reached down grabbing him by the hair and pulling him to his feet. "Where's your magic now?" She then let go and took a step back. "Go and find the other one -- NOW!" she ordered. Jason watched as most of them ran off.

"I'm here; don't say anything," Sam, who was still invisible, whispered to Jason. Jason looked around and smile. "Come on!" In split seconds, Sam pulled Jason into a portal, which teleported them back near the cage. Sam became visible and pulled Jason to the side. "I left it open! They will be coming." Moments later, they watched as the woman and several other vampires found themselves trapped inside the cage. Sam then closed the portal and laughed.

Jason walked up to the cage and asked the woman. "Where's Seth?"

The woman growled at him. "You won't get anything out of us." Jason turned to Sam and nodded. Sam conjured fire, which broke out inside the cage, scorching the vampires. They screamed in agony. After a brief moment, Jason nodded to Sam, who then let the fire recede. He bent down looking at the woman. "Just tell us." She shook her head.

"Jason!" Sam called his attention.

Jason turned around to find that vampires have surrounded them.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Nine

The first vampire charged at Sam. He quickly disappeared. Jason let the fire engulf him. He then grabbed the vampire, which had attacked him, and twisted off its head. The next vampire leaped over his head and kicked him from behind. Jason turned around grabbing the vampire by the arm, and its arm turned to dust. The vampire backed off baring its teeth. Jason attacked it, knocking its feet out. He pressed his hands to its face and moments later, all that was left of the vampire was dust. Jason turned around to see the others standing, watching. Sam appeared beside Jason. Jason nodded, and they clasped hands. A swirling black funnel appeared in front of them. The vampires tried to turn and run, but the funnel already had them. One by one, they were deposited into the cage to join their burnt comrades. Jason let go of Sam's hand and turned around. The vampires were shoulder to shoulder.

"Does anyone want to talk?" asked Jason. He smiled at Sam.

"I do," a voice answered. They turned facing the direction the voice came from -- Seth. He was standing just a few feet away. "I have to say, for two newbies, you're very clever." Then he looked at his captured vampires. "Now, why don't you be good boys and let my friends go -- and I'll let you live tonight."

Jason looked at Sam, and they joined hands again.

A bright yellow light surrounded them, and their mom and Helen appeared in front of them.

"End them now!" Sara yelled. The brothers turned to the cage and invoked their magic. Fire erupted in the cage, and the vampires screamed in torment. Seth clapped his hands, and a vampire came from the shadows and grabbed Helen. She let out a cry as she hit the ground. Jason turned and let go of Sam's hand. However, Sara shook her head. "Finish them."

Jason looked at Helen. "Mom, she needs our help."

Sara shook her head. "She's already dead; now, do as I say." Helen nodded at Jason and grabbed Sam's hand. The vampires screeched out of pain for a few more minutes until there was nothing left of them but ashes. The two then turned around to face Seth. They watched as he picked Helen up.

"Now, my turn," he said as he let his fangs grow. But before he could sink his teeth into her, Jason raised his hand, and she was set ablaze. Seth dropped her letting her hit her knees, then she turned to ash. He patted off his hands. "Well, next time I would have to use someone more important." He rushed them, pounding on the protective barrier.

Their mom hit her knees. "Open a portal, Sam, and get out of here."

Sam opened a portal, and they stepped into it and arrived back at the house.

"Grab your bag and hurry." Jason said,  running upstairs to grab his bag. With their things packed, they hurried to the car and jumped in. And soon, they were on the highway.

"Where are we going?" Sam asked his brother.

"The next safehouse."

Jason pulled up to a house and turned off the ignition. He looked over at his brother, who was snoring.

"It won't take them long to find you," a voice broke the silence. He turned to find his mother in the backseat. "Get inside and stay there for now. Helen is waiting for you." Helen? He was about to ask how when Sara told him that she will explain everything. Sara then disappeared. Jason shook Sam awake and got out of the car grabbing his bag. He grinned as Sam staggered beside him.

"Where are we?"

Jason just shook his head and headed for the house. When they were close to the door, it opened -- Helen. She smiled at them.

"How?" Jason asked.

She stepped to the side so they could enter. "Come in, and I'll explain everything." They walked in and dropped their bags on the floor. Then they went to the couch to sit. Helen closed the door and joined them. "My families are guardians," she began.  "Our blood is mixed with the Phoenix. You know what those are?" Both brothers shook their heads. "Phoenixes are legendary creatures that are resurrected in the fire. That explains my younger appearance," she said smiling. "Now, get some rest; we will only be here for a couple of days. Your rooms are upstairs."

The two stood and headed upstairs.

In his room, Jason wrapped the towel around his waist and sat on the bed. His phone rang. He picked it up and checked the caller -- Cindy.

"Hi gorgeous," he said.

"Where are you? How could you leave me like that?"

Jason sat up. "Sorry, babe. There are some things going on. Things you wouldn't understand."

After a moment of silence, she answered, "I would understand; you just had to take the time to explain it to me."

"Cindy, I'm sorry I'll call you tomorrow." Jason hung up and laid on the bed.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Ten

The following morning, Jason woke up and headed downstairs. He sat down in the kitchen and watched as Sam ate his breakfast. "Is there anything left?"

Sam shook his head and continued to eat.

Helen walked over and slid a plate in front of him. "I saved you some," she said smiling. Jason took a bite of his eggs. Helen then placed a cup of coffee in front of him. "We have a few things we need to talk about," she said as she sat down and took a drink of her coffee. "We need to move on and soon."

Jason took a bite of his bacon. "Any suggestions?"

She nodded and stood, then she got a book and handed it to him. "The caves. They are more secure than these safe houses and have more magical protections. Sam can use portals to get us in and out; it will be the only way."

Jason pushed back his chair and got up. "Then we should get going."

Helen nodded. "The sooner, the better," she said putting her plate and Jason's in the sink. Jason and Helen looked at Sam.

"What?" he asked as he stood. "Can't we wait until tomorrow? There are a few things I'd like to do."

Jason looked at him. "Like what? We have an evil thing after us; what's more important than hiding?"

Sam turned to go up the stairs. "I've missed so much school, and I miss my friends." He ran on, and they soon heard the slam of his door.

Jason turned to Helen. "He's right. He should be in school, not worrying about the world ending."

Helen walked over and took his hands.

"It's your destines to stop Seth. I know you two have the power." He nodded.

Jason knocked on Sam's door.

"Come on; open up." The door creaked open, and he watched as Sam sat down and looked up at him.

"It's not fair. Why does it have to be us?" he asked.

Jason sat next to him. "I don't know, but people are dying." He reached over and took his brother's hand.

The glow from their touch brightened and only subsided when Sam tore away. "Let go!" he yelled and stood up. "Just a day; give me a day to go out shopping. To go to the mall and play some video games. To do some of the things kids are doing."

"What about Seth and his goons?"

Sam grabbed his jacket. "I can open a portal and come back here."

Jason grabbed his arm as he tried to pass. "Then I'm coming too."

As they went downstairs pulling on their jackets, an intense vibration shook the house.

Helen came running. "They found us," she squealed, looking afraid.

"Protections will hold?" Helen shrugged.

Jason turned to Sam. "I'm sorry, man."

He turned to Helen. "Pack what we will need. You, too, Sam."

Jason grabbed his sword and went outside. He stopped on the porch looking at the two vampires that were attacking the house, causing it to shake. When they spotted him, they stopped and snarled at him.

"Leave, while you can," Jason yelled and stepped out into the yard. He unsheathed his sword.

"Seth is coming," one of them said.

Jason grinned letting the sword fall to his side, and as he did, it ignited with a blue, burning flame. He walked up to the glow that was protecting the house and went through it. They snarled, baring their teeth. The first vampire lunged toward him. Jason raised his sword and cut down, hacking off its arm and causing it to fall to the ground. Jason grinned lifting the sword again. This time, the sword sliced through its neck, decapitating the vampire. The second one came running.

Jason sidestepped, making it miss, and turned around raising the sword. "Come on! Join your friend!"

The vampire rushed him again and was able to knock his feet from under him. Jason landed on his back, and the sword fell several feet away from him. Jason grabbed the vampire by the coat in a move to keep its teeth from his neck. He grunted as he kicked trying to push it away.

"Seth won't be happy when he finds out I killed you."

"That won't be a problem!" Sam said. The vampire turned to find Sam behind him with the sword in his hands. He looked up as Sam lowered the blade. With one clean swoop, the vampire's head was severed.

Jason dusted his hands and got to his feet. "Nice work!" he remarked.

Sam turned going back into the safety of the house.

Jason followed him grabbing his arm. "I'm sorry we have to go," he said.

Sam thrust the sword at him. "No problem. Come on, we have to go, remember?"

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Eleven

Jason walked back into the house. He laid down the sword on the table.

"Are you ready?" Jason asked Sam leaning up against the wall.

"Are we ready?" Jason asked. Helen nodded.

Sam walked up beside him. "How did they find us so fast?" he asked Jason who was walking around the room. "Where's the book of safe houses?" Sam asked turning to Helen. She shrugged, and he looked at Jason, who shook his head.

"We had to leave the other house pretty fast," Jason said. He turned to shake his head.

"Then we can't go to any of them. Seth must have it and knows about the hideouts." Said Sam.

Helen came forward. "Not the cave; it's protected and has no door. The only way to get there is through a portal." She pulled out a sheet of paper and handed it to Jason.

"Are you sure? We can stay there for a while?" asked Jason.

Helen nodded.

"I think so." He picked up the sword looking at Helen.

"Fine; let's go." He grabbed his bag and held out his hand to Sam. When their hands touched, a faint red glow appeared. Helen nodded and watched as a portal opened. And the three of them stepped inside.

Jason and Sam dropped their bags on the floor. They looked around, mesmerized by the massive cavern.

"Amazing, isn't it?" Helen pointed out as she motioned for them to follow her. "It's amazing, but after a week or two, it would feel like a tomb. There are no windows or doors. Nothing to indicate there is a world outside. The bedrooms are this way." She led them to a small set of steps, all cut out of the cave walls, and they ascended it. "There are two rooms at the end," she said as she opened a door and disappeared inside. Jason and Sam walked on down. Jason opened the first door and nodded to Sam as he stopped and entered the second room, slamming the door as he went in.

Jason let himself fall onto the bed and took a deep breath. He looked up at the rock ceiling. When he sat up, the walls were the same dull, grey color. He walked over looking at the bathroom and headed back downstairs. Helen was sitting on the couch when he got there.

"Where do the power and water come from?" he asked as he walked over to her.

"It's all magic." She pointed to a glowing stone in the corner of the room. "This place was created as the last stand for the end," she said standing. "Everything you need will be provided for you, just ask. Now, to get dinner started." She started to walk away and stopped. "There's a room over there that's filled with books and weapons." She looked around. "This was the last place your dad and grandpa worked." Then she turned disappearing.

Jason stood walking down a hall. He stopped looking at the large room. Then he looked at the books laying on the table. Several unfinished swords and axes laid on the side tables. Jason sat down and read through the last few pages of notes. He looked up at the unfinished sword and ax. He stood looking at the tools. The fire to the forge lit and moments later the room heated, and he began to sweat. He picked up a large hammer and started to pound as the metal of the sword glowed red. Jason pounded and heated the metal of both weapons for the next few hours.

"What are you doing?"

Jason turned to find Sam behind him. He wiped the sweat from his brow, then he picked up the diary and handed it to his brother. "Dad was working on these two weapons." Jason picked up the ax and handed it to him. "For you!"

As Sam took the ax, it gave off a deep green radiance. "It feels weird like it belongs to me," he said.

Jason nodded picking up the sword. It, too, glowed bright red.

"Dad was making them for us. These weapons know us, our blood." He laid down the sword. "I need a shower; I hope dinner is almost made. I'm starving." Jason said as he left.

Jason came down the stairs while looking down at his clothes. The smell of food filled his senses.

Helen appeared as he neared the base of the stairway. "Dinner is ready; Sam is already eating."

Jason shook his head. "Is there anything left?" she smiled motioning for him to follow her.

Jason sat down at the table in front of a plate. "Where do you put it all?" Jason asked his brother who just smiled. Jason ate and helped Helen clean up.

"What are we going to do?" Jason asked.

She looked at him. "That's up to you." She said washing the dish and Jason dried it. "There's always training, and you could continue to attack Seth's goons."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Twelve

Jason, Sam, and Helen watched the horror on TV: cities burned, and people laid dead by the dozens.

"He's growing more powerful," Helen said as she stood. "You two have been training, and it's time you showed Seth just how powerful you have become."

Jason stood up and nodded looking at Sam. "Are you ready?"

He stood in front of his brother. "I'm ready!"

The portal took them to the city. Buildings burned and smoked filled the air.

"That armor looks good on you." Jason said as Sam turned to look at the several bodies lined up. He overturned their heads as he walked past.

"Vampires!" Sam said standing.

"The city must be full of them." Jason said looking up at the blocked-out sun. "It should be daylight."

Sam looked up and closed his eyes. "Magic," he said walking to Jason. "Powerful too." Jason motioned for him to follow. They walked down the streets. It was a mess. The damage was severe. Suddenly, two figures walked their way. The brother's stopped just ahead of them.

"I was hoping some of you were still alive," one of the vampires said. Jason took his battle stance and held out his sword. He nodded to Sam who did the same.

The biggest vampire ran at Jason. He sidestepped, letting the vampire miss him. He grinned while letting his power flow through the sword. The vampire looked at the sword for a moment before its attention went back to Jason. Again, it smiled and lunged toward him. Jason waited until the vampire was upon him, then he sidestepped and slashed it across the back. When it hit the ground, he sliced again, beheading it. Sam had also been busy -- when Jason looked over at him, the vampires he was fighting were turning to dust.

"Are you OK?" asked Jason.

Sam nodded and headed on down the street. "There has to be more of them."

Jason ran up beside him. "I know there is. Just look at what they've done to this city." They stepped over more bodies. They stopped and turned when they heard several screams coming from a building. And then they took off running into it. On sighting four vampires pushing some debris out of the way, they stopped running.

"Help us!" a girl cried out.

The vampires looked at the brothers. Two of them started coming their way. Sam raised his ax, then he attacked them. Meeting the first, he sidestepped and brought his weapon down onto the vampires back. He pulled the ax out and stood on the vampire. Suddenly, the vampire rose, sending him flying against a nearby wall.

"Sam!" yelled Jason. Jason watched as the vampire stood and showed its fangs. He cut down the vampire he had been fighting and ran to Sam's aid. He slashed the vampire across the back, and when the vampire turned around, he cut it in half. He held out his hand to his brother and helped him up. "You OK?"

Sam nodded. Then he held up his ax and ran toward the girls and the other vampires. Sam brought his ax down to attack the nearest vampire, who took a step back and smashed him in the stomach. Sam stopped doubling over. The vampire grabbed him and threw him, sending him sliding across the floor. Before he could get up, it was standing over him. Jason fought with the other and turned to check on Sam. Distracted, the vampire hit him knocking him to his knees. It's hand wrapped around his throat, picking him up off the ground. As it opened its mouth, Jason gagged from the stench of death.

The vampire turned to the girls. "Watch carefully, because when I'm done with him, it's your turn." The vampire made a groaning sound and turned to ash. Sam had made his way over to help his brother -- he smiled at Jason as he ended the vampire.

Then, he held out his hand helping both girls over the barricade. "You're OK now," Sam assured them. The first one was blond and looked older, but the second looked just about his age. "I'm Sam. Do you have a safe place to go?"

They both shook their heads. "Those things killed our family yesterday."

Sam turned to Jason. "We can't leave them here."

Jason looked at them. They were caked in dirt and shivering. "Take them back to the cave."

Sam nodded and opened a portal, then he ushered the scared girls inside.

"Very well done!" a voice declared.

Jason turned to see Seth standing at the door with several other vampires. Before he could raise his sword, he was on his knees. "Why fight? You can't win this war. Bring him outside; I want everyone to see me kill him."

Jason struggled to get free as he was dragged to the center of town. Soon, they were surrounded by hundreds of vampires. "My children, may I present a brother," Seth announced. The vampires snarled and hissed. "I thought you would like to watch me kill him." The vampires clapped and laughed. One of them came forward with Jason's sword and threw it at his feet. "I've seen these blood weapons before," Seth remarked. "I believe your father created them," he added with a laugh. He walked around, getting behind Jason, and grabbed his head. "Get ready, brothers, it's time to drink!"

Instantly, there was a loud bang accompanied by a bright flash -- Sam. He jumped out of a portal and knocked Seth back. "Get your sword!"

Jason grabbed his sword, and they both turned to Seth who laughed.

"What a fool!" he said as the hundreds of vampires closed in on them. Sam grabbed Jason's hand, and they raised their weapons. A bright beam shot into the sky. They watched as their energy burned away the dark magic that'd blocked the sun. As the sun broke through the darkness, the vampires hissed and burned -- all turning to dust. They turned to Seth, who had covered himself.

"Nicely played," Seth said and disappeared.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Thirteen

Back in the large cave, Jason and Sam sat and watched as the two girls they had saved came down the stairs, following Helen. She nodded at the brother's as they stood in front of them.

"I'd like you to meet Trish and Megan."

Sam got to his feet and kissed their hands. Jason stood chuckling.

"Thank you for saving us," one of them said.

Jason smiled at her. He looked her up and down. Her body was nice and slim. She wore a pair of jeans, and her top was tight. Jason immediately looked at her shining blue eyes and long brown hair. He turned to find Sam, who was busy chatting with Trish.

"How are you?" Sam asked. Jason elbowed him and received a dirty look from Sam.

"Are you ready to go home?" asked Jason.

Megan shook her head. "Our family is gone; those things killed everyone. We have nothing to go back to."

"Please, let us stay here with you. We can work: we'll wash the dishes and mop the floors. Anything you want," Trish pleaded.

Jason shook his head. "Girls, I'm sorry--."

"Can I talk to you?" Sam grabbed his brother's hand and pulled him to the side. Helen followed them. "What are you doing? They should stay."

Jason shook his head. "We don't need the distraction," he said as he freed himself from Sam's grip.

"I think they should stay too," said Helen. "I could use their help, and they would be safe here."

Jason shook his head. "And who's going to protect them from Sam?" At his funny remark, Sam playfully punched him in the shoulder.

He turned to Helen. "OK, get them settled in." They turned to the girls. "You can stay." Jason said.

Both squealed. Megan rushed forward and hugged Jason. He took a deep breath smelling her hair. He took a step back smiling. "Go with Helen and get settled in. At dinner, we will tell you what's going on." As they left, Jason turned to Sam. "You better behave yourself," he said with a smile on his face.

"What does that mean? I saw the way she hugged you."

Jason shook his head walking to the training room. "I have Cindy," he said as he picked up his sword.

"Yeah? Where is she? How long has it been since you had sex?"

Jason turned to look at his brother. "It doesn't matter; I have no interest in her." He watched as Sam left.

The next few days went by slow. Sam was right: Jason found himself thinking about Megan, and he could see how Sam was with Trish. He was happy for his brother but was worried. Jason went to his room and pulled out his phone and called Cindy and laid down on the bed.

"Where are you?" she asked.

"Hi to you too."

After a moment of silence, Cindy finally responded. "Hi, honey. Where are you?"

He sat up looking around the cave. "I wish I could explain things. Jason stood and walked around his room. "I miss you," he added, then he sat back down.

"I miss you too, and I don't understand why you don't want to tell me where you are."

He laid down and took a deep breath. "It's hard to explain. Is everything OK there?"

"People have gone missing... but everything seems OK."

He sat up. "Meet me tomorrow at noon at the mall."

"I can't until six," she said. "I have a few things to do for my mom."

"OK, that's fine. I can't wait to see you."

The next morning Jason showered and headed downstairs. He pulled Sam to the side. "I want you to open a portal to take me back home this evening."

Sam looked at him. "Why?"

"I'm meeting Cindy at the mall." Jason's eyes got big.

"I want to go, and I bet the girls would like to go too."

Jason shook his head. "No, we can't take them."

Sam sat down. "Then, I don't open a portal, and you don't go either."

Jason sat next to him. "I can get you some points with the girls."

This got Sam's attention. "How?"

Jason shook his head standing. "You will just have to trust me."

Jason spent the afternoon asking the girls questions. He went to the workroom and wrote everything down.

Sam walked in. "What are you doing?"

Jason stuffed the sheet into his pocket and pointed at the clock. "You ready?" Sam nodded and opened a portal. They were teleported to the mall back home.

"Now, tell me," Sam said.

Jason handed him the paper. "That's their clothes size, and what they like."

Sam smiled as Jason handed him a credit card. He then turned and ran off. Jason walked to the food court and sat down across from Cindy.

She squealed leaning across the table to kiss him. "I've missed you." She stood taking his hand. Jason also stood and followed her around the mall. "What's going on? You haven't been home for months, and you rarely call me."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Fourteen

Jason and Cindy continued walked around.

Sam walked up to them. "I think I got everything," he said. Jason looked at Cindy.

"You're leaving already?" she asked.

Jason looked at Sam. "Why don't you go and get something to eat. I'll join you soon." Sam smiled and left.

"Come on!" she pulled him into a store at the very back. She opened the dressing rooms and pulled him inside. She pressed her lips to his. Jason pulled off her shirt. She smiled pulling his off too. He closed his eyes as she kissed down his neck. Suddenly, she bit into him as Jason screamed. He tried to push her away but couldn't. He let the power come to his hands, then he grabbed her by the shoulder. She backed off screaming. Jason shook his head, looking at her blood-filled mouth.

Jason shook his head as tears filled his eyes. "No!" he said.

Cindy licked her lips, smiling. "Are you going to cry, big boy? Well, don't. I'm stronger, faster, and nothing can hurt me. Seth gave me the greatest gift."

Jason backed away opening the door. "It's not a gift; it's a curse," he said as he backed out into the store.

"You won't get far; we've been waiting for you." Jason turned and ran.

He entered the food court and saw Sam stand up. "Get us out of here now."

Sam opened a portal. "What happened?" he asked.

"Cindy; she's a vampire."

"Yes, I am." They turned to find Cindy and several other vampires around. Immediately, Jason pushed Sam into the portal and backed into it himself. They landed back at the cave -- Cindy too.  She grabbed Jason, pushing him down. "Come on, lover!" she opened her mouth to bite down; but before she could, she screamed and turned to ash. Jason looked up at Sam and sat up.

Helen kneeled. "Oh dear, you're pale as a ghost."

A bright light appeared, and their mom took shape. She knelt and pressed her hand to his wound. She stood holding out her hand. "I'm sorry, Jason," she said. She hugged him, took a step back, and then she disappeared.

"What's going on? Was that an angel?" Megan asked.

Jason got up and headed for his room.

He walked out of the shower and wrapped the towel around his waist. As he entered his room, he found Megan in it.

"I hope you don't mind?" she said as she walked over to him. "Sam told us about Cindy. I'm sorry," she said. She leaned in and kissed him. Her hands went to the towel, removing it. Jason watched as she took a step back pulling off her shirt. Jason stretched out in bed and hour later as Megan got up and dressed.

"Where are you going?" Jason asked as he rolled over.

"Trish will be wondering where I am." Then, she opened the door. "Later, lover." He watched as she disappeared. Jason got up and dressed, then he, too, headed downstairs.

Megan was sitting on the couch when Jason got downstairs.

"Where's Trish?" he asked as he sat down beside her.

"I guess she's with your brother."

Jason looked up at his room. "Are you sure?" he asked. "He's girl shy and a virgin."

She turned to him. "So is Trish. We've been friends for years. She's never been with anyone."

Jason stood. "Maybe we should knock on the door."

Megan stood and took his hand, shaking her head. "Let's just leave them be and hope they are safe. It's their decision."

Afterward, he took her hands and took her to the workroom. Her eyes went wide when she saw all the weapons inside.

He picked up a sword and handed it to her. "You should learn to protect yourself," he said picking up another sword and holding it out in front of her. They spent the next few hours practicing until Sam appeared at the door. Jason looked at the huge smile plastered on his face as he walked in. He leaned up against a table as Trish came in and pulled Megan away.

Jason turned to Sam as the ladies left. "So?"

Sam turned away. "So, what?"

"Oh, come on, did you do it or not?"

Sam turned back around nodding. "We did it," he said happily.

"Were you safe?" Sam nodded. "Glad you got that out of your system, little brother. We need to get back out there." He laid down the sword.

"Why don't we train the girls? They could be a lot of help."

Jason took a seat. "I don't know; I think they would be a distraction."

Sam looked at his brother. "You slept with her, didn't you?" Jason shook his head.

"You're a liar, I know you did."

Jason smiled. "Think what you want."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Fifteen

For the next few weeks, Jason and Sam worked with the girls.

"Come on, Megan; you can do better than that." Jason slashed at her again with his sword. She blocked it and slashed at him. He grinned nodding. "Much better!" he said. She slashed again and again, then she swept his feet out from under him and held her sword to his throat.

Then she sat on his chest and pressed her lips to his. "How was that?" She stood helping him up.

"Much better," he said and kissed her.

"Oh, please, get a room, you two." said Sam.

Jason grabbed a towel and wiped his face.

"You're to talk; we can't round a turn unless you Trish are there," Sam smirked as Trisha picked up her ax.

Jason led Megan out as Sam and Trisha began to spar.

"I think you are ready," Jason told Megan.

The two showered and went downstairs. As they ate dinner, they talked about going back into town.

"It's going to be dangerous," Jason said as he ate. Sam, Trish, and Megan nodded.

"We're ready," stated Megan. "We can hold our own." She smiled as she took another bite of her dinner.

"We will see tomorrow," Jason said.

Jason watched as Sam and Trish sparred. He could see how they looked at one another and looked over at Megan and smiled. Trish grunted as she blocked a blow from Sam. He kicked out, but Trish stepped back in time. She rushed him, swinging her ax and sweeping his feet from under him. She lowered her ax to his throat. "Weak!" she said.

"I let you win," he said as she helped him up.

She hissed. "Yeah, right!" Then she laid her ax down. "Time for a shower." She held out her hand, and Jason and Megan watched as they left.

Megan walked over to Jason's side. "Do you think she is ready?"

Jason walked over to table. "Seems so; I still think you two would be a distraction."

She wrapped her arms around him. "Is that good?"

He turned to look at her. "In the right place." He smiled as she backed away.

"Where's the right place?" she asked as he moved toward her.

"The bedroom?" Jason said.

She giggled as he ran his hand up and down her arm. "Do you think there's any hot water left?" she asked backing away, playfully.

He shrugged. "Who cares?"

The next day came fast. Jason helped Megan put her armor on and watched as Sam helped Trish with her armor.

"You two stay close to Sam and me," Jason said to them as he secured his weapon. "You have to be close for our power to stay connected to your weapons." The girls nodded. He then turned to Helen. "We'll be back in a while." He nodded to Sam, gesturing that he open the portal. Sam then opened a portal, and the four of them walked into it. As they exited the portal, they came to face an empty street. The houses and businesses had all gone dark.

Megan covered her nose and mouth. "Is everyone dead?" she asked looking around at all the bodies.

Jason walked up beside her. "Seth is moving faster, from town to town." He took her by the hand and continued to walk. They came to the town circle and stopped to take in the sight. People piled on top of one another. The stench was almost unbearable.

"There's nothing to fight here; they have moved on," Trish said.

"I wouldn't say that," someone behind them said. The four of them turned around to see a tall woman. She smiled baring her teeth. "We were just about to leave," she said taking a step forward. Jason nodded to Sam and their weapons ignited. The woman laughed and turned to the vampires behind her. "Are you hungry?" They all roared. She turned back around, letting her teeth extend. "The ax lady is mine!"

The horde of vampires attacked them. Jason nodded to Sam, and they all bumped into a magical barrier. Jason smiled watching as the cage trapped them. He then walked up to the woman. "Where's Seth?"

The woman roared, pounding the cage with her fists. "You can't stop him!" she screamed. "It's his time, and when he's done, the world will be his."

Jason motioned for Sam to join him. "I don't want her harmed; she's important to him. I can tell."

Sam turned to the cage, and it shifted. The woman was separated from the rest. She screamed and turned back to them.

"It won't matter; he will come for me."

Jason clasped Sam's hand, and the rest of the vampires screamed as they were set ablaze and turned to ash.

The woman turned to them smiling. Then she wiped the tears of blood from her eyes. "Do your worst."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapters Sixteen

Jason walked into a room and watched as the woman pounded on the magical cage. He slid a cup of blood toward her and took a seat. She looked at his cut hand. "Why are you feeding me?"

Jason scooted to the edge of his seat. "Why don't you answer a question for me first?" he asked. "What's your name?"

She picked up the cup and took a sip. "Why is that important? Why don't you just get on with the torture?"

Jason stood. "What's your name?"

She stood facing him. "Call me Leria."

Jason nodded sitting back down. "I'm not here to hurt you."

Leria laughed. "No, you just think I'm going to betray my master." She sat down on the little bed in her enclosure. "It doesn't matter, he has so many followers. I'm just one of many." She took another drink.

"Did you choose to become a vampire, Leria?"

She looked up at him and shook her head.

"So, this was done to you?"

She nodded. "He tore into me, and then he gave me a choice. To either die or serve him."

Jason nodded in understanding. "There's no known cure for what he's done to you." He turned to the door as Sam walked in and handed him a book.

"Our grandfather found a way to return your humanity," Jason continued. "Your feelings; a sense of who you were will return. It won't take away your thirst or who you are now. You might even be hurt for what you've done."

She placed the cup down and stood up. "What purpose would returning my humanity serve?" she smiled sitting down. "It would only benefit you, but there's no need. I can't tell you about Seth. I don't know anything."

Jason stood. "What about your family? Are they still alive?"

She shook her head. "I watched him kill them."

Jason turned to Sam. "Help us stop him from doing that to other families. Help us!" Jason said.

Leria shook her head. "It won't matter; he's too strong. He will kill you and then me."

"But I accept your offer," she said as Jason turned to leave.

He turned back around to face her. "Are you sure?"

She nodded and sat down. "I never wanted to be this. Please, help me."

Jason sat down and nodded to Sam who then placed several candles around the room and lit them. He sat a bright red crystal inside the cage.

"This will hold the darkness," Sam said. He then sat down beside Jason, and they clasped hands.

Jason started the spell. The lights in the room began to flicker, and the crystal began to glow. Jason read from the book.  Leria started to scream and rose into the air. A green light surrounded her. Jason finished the spell and watched as Leria landed on the floor. The crystal now glowed a deep red. Leria stood up looking at her hands. She then looked at Jason and Sam and started to cry.

"Are you OK?" Jason asked as he opened the cage. Sam grabbed his arm shaking his head. Jason thrust the book into his hands, letting him read their grandfather's notes.

Jason walked in, observing her. She sobbed and sobbed. "The things I've done," she said. "I've killed people. I've killed children."

Jason shook his head. "That wasn't you; that was the dark thing inside you." He then picked up the crystal and showed it to her. "That dark thing now lives in here. It's not who you are anymore," he said handing it to her. She sat down on the bed and looked up at Jason and Sam. "It's a new life; a new start," he added.

"There's no hope with Seth out there. No one can take him; he's too powerful." She held up her hand. "Please, don't come any closer," she said.

Jason stopped to look at her. "I'm here for you."

She shook her head. "Please, just leave me alone." Jason walked out of the cage and watched as it secured her. Sam shook his head and turned to leave.

"If you need, anything let us know," Jason said and followed Sam out into the living area.

Megan came up to him, intertwining her hand with his. "How is she?"

Jason sat down shaking his head. "She's guilt-ridden for the things she's done. I'm not sure if she's going to be of any help."

Helen walked in and handed them a sandwich. "I've seen what the spell does to them. She will settle down in a day or so. She'd probably forgotten what human feelings are like. She's overwhelmed right now. Just give her some time and space."

Jason smiled as she left.

He looked at Megan. "We'll move her into one of the spare rooms upstairs and use the same cage spell on the room. She will have her own bathroom, and we'll get her some clothes."

Megan stood up. "I'll go and get the room ready." Trish, too, got up and followed her.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Seventeen

The next few days were hard. Leria sobbed all day in her room. Megan and Trish made sure she had new clothes and the things she needed. One of them always kept her company.

Megan looked up as Jason opened the door and came in. She met him with a kiss and excused them. Jason sat down looking at Leria. "How are you today?" he handed her a glass of blood.

Leria shamefully took it and drank. "It's hard," she said. "I keep seeing the faces of the ones I have killed. I remember feeling nothing as I killed them. I sucked the life out of babies," she said, crying.

Jason stood up and held out his hand. "Why don't you come down and join the rest of us."

She shook her head. "I'm not ready."

Jason sat back down. "Do you think we'll judge you?"

She looked at him and wiped her tears. "Won't you?"

Jason shook his head. "I told you; it's not your fault. You didn't choose this life." He stood up again and held out his hand. Leria slowly stood and took his hand. They walked downstairs. As they got to the mouth of the stairs, Megan and Trish went up to her smiling. They walked over and had a seat on the couch.

Megan sat down beside her. "Are the clothes OK?"

Leria nodded and looked at Jason.

"It's OK; dinner should be ready soon." Stated Jason.

Jason looked at Sam, and the both of them headed to the training room. Jason leaned against a table as Sam came in and shut the door behind him.

"What do you think?" Sam asked and sat down.

Jason turned around looking at all the books. "I don't know; she's scared. The things she's done goes deep."

Sam stood walking over. "There has to be something in these books, right?"

Jason shook his head. "No, we're not going to force her. She's already been through too much. She will tell us when she's ready."

Sam's fist slammed into the table. "We need to know what she knows."

They both turned as the door opened. "There's not much to tell," Leria said as she entered and sat down. Megan and Trish stood behind her. "He always kept to himself and would only send his generals to give us orders. They would tell us where we were going next."

Jason turned facing her. "Do you know where these generals are?"

She shook her head. "Not all of them, but I do know one, but he's very dangerous."

Sam stepped in front of Jason. "What about Seth? Where can we find him?"

She shook her head. He approached her and forcefully grabbed her shoulders. Jason pulled him back and slammed him into the table.

"Go, before I stomp you." He watched as Sam stormed out with Trish behind him. He then knelt in front of Leria who was now crying. "Are you OK?"

She nodded. "I'm OK." Jason got up and stepped back. "Seth keeps to himself. No one ever talked about where he was or where he stayed."

Jason smiled. "That's enough," he said walking over to Megan and Sam.

She stood. "Can I go back to my room?" Jason nodded looking at Megan. She stopped as Megan led her out. "I did hear someone talk about a sword. Something he was scared of."

"Do you remember what it was called?" She shook her head.

"Thank you!" he said as they left. He turned around and looked at the books. Sam came in and stood beside him. "What were you thinking?" Jason asked Sam.

"I just lost it; I'm tired of being cooped up in here."

Jason turned to him. "Don't you think I feel the same way? But we have to stay hidden. It's the only way we're going to beat him."

Sam turned away. "Who do you think you're fooling? We're not going to beat him." At that, he stormed out.

Jason turned back to the bookcases.

"Your grandpa and dad were right," Helen said.

He turned to face her. "It seems so, but how exactly do we find this sword?"

She smiled. "I know you will."

Jason turned back to the books as she left.

For the next few hours, he read through his father's journals. Soon arms surrounded him in an embrace.

"Have you found anything?" Megan asked.

He shook his head. "Just some mentions of a weapon of light." He closed the book and turned around standing. He then held out his hand to Megan. "Let's go to bed."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Eighteen

The following morning, Jason walked into the training room and sat down. He opened the book from last evening and continued to read it. He sat back thinking after about an hour.

"The sword was hidden by the dark. We have searched every lead and have found nothing. Every dark thing says something different. I'm afraid it will never be found. Without it, I'm afraid Seth is unstoppable."

They spent the afternoon talking.

Leria talked about the general and where they might find him. "He will be heading the next siege," she said sitting back. "He will have many followers with him. He won't be easy to catch, not like me."

Jason paced back and forth. "We need to find a way to temporarily subdue him. To weaken him.

Leria stood. "I might know something. A plant. We vampires fear it because it can immobilize us. But the tricky part would be getting close enough to administer it."

"We can use the same trick: use the cage and use Helen to burn them." said Jason.

Leria shrugged. "It might work, but he is stronger than me. You won't have much time, and how are you going to keep him caged? Chains won't work."

Jason looked around. "We can use one of the barren tunnels. Use the same magic that protects us here and keeps others out."

Helen walked around. "I don't think we should bring him here. I think it should be somewhere else."

Jason looked at her. "Do you have someplace in mind?"

She nodded. "I've been searching. I found a place with no entrance, just like this one."

Jason smiled. "We go tomorrow. We'll do the spells and get the mojo working." He looked at Leria. "Then we go after the general!"

The next afternoon, the brothers stood in the barren tunnel they had found with Helen. Jason held onto Sam's hand as he muttered the spells to make the cave imperturbable and inescapable. Jason slammed the book shut and nodded.

"There, no one can come in or out without one of your portals, Sam."

Sam opened a portal, and they all stepped through it.

Leria and the rest stood at the corner.

"Are you sure they are here?"

She shrugged. "This place was on the last map I saw. It doesn't look like it's been taken yet."

They stood in the shadows waiting when they started hearing screams.

Jason turned to Sam. "Get the cage up and ready.

Sam nodded while taking Trisha's hand. "Be careful, bro, and be safe. We only have one shot at this."

Jason watched as they ran off. He took Megan's hand. "Stay close." She pressed her lips to his. "Helen, go, and be ready."

She nodded and disappeared into the shadows.

Hand in hand, Jason and Megan met the band of vampires. A tall man in the center turned to them, dropping a woman he'd just fed on to the ground. He licked his lips with a smug look on his face and smiled.

"Well, if it isn't one of the brothers." He looked around. "Where is the other one?" The vampire shrugged. "Doesn't matter." He raised his hands, and the horde of vampires attacked them. They raised their weapons and cut down the first wave of vampires. The second wave rushed forward. Jason and Megan stood back to back and cut down the vampires as they came. Jason raised his sword and ran through a woman as she rushed him. She laughed, grabbing the sword. Jason hissed and pushed up, cutting her in half. She fell to the ground and turned to dust.

"There's too many of them," Megan said as another wave came their way.

"We have to do our best to hold the line. It's not time," he whispered. They continued to fight, slashing and cutting down the vampires.

"Jason!" Megan cried. He turned to find that a vampire has pushed her to the ground. He turned running the vampire through. He took Megan's hand and helped her up looking at the bite marks on her neck.

"Are you OK?" she nodded. Together they turned and fought as the vampires surrounded them. Jason lifted his sword and cut off a vampire's head. The next one pushed him back, but Megan's sword was on hand to cut its head off. He pushed to the side as a vampire came at them. He raised his sword and chopped off one of its legs. Megan brought down her ax and cut off its head. He wiped the sweat off his brow and smiled at Megan.

"Not bad for a human," the tall vampire said. Jason pushed Megan back, but she pushed her way back beside him.

He nodded turning back. "It ends here," Jason said. The vampire smiled and charged at them.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Nineteen

Sam and Trish stepped out of the shadows, and a glow surrounded the remaining group of vampires. Jason clasped his brother's hand, strengthening him. The tall vampire walked up to the edge and slammed its fist into the barrier. The force from the hit sent Jason and Sam crashing to their knees.

"He's too strong," Sam screamed as the vampire thumped it again.

"Helen!" Jason screamed. She appeared looking at them.

She turned to the vampires. "Shield him from the rest." Sam and Jason did as she asked. Soon, the tall vampire was separated from the rest. Helen took a deep breath and unleashed fire upon the rest. They screamed, and moments later, they were all gone. The tall vampire hit the cage again.

"Sam, do it now!" Jason yelled.

Sam opened a portal, and they watched as the vampire disappeared into it.

Sam pulled away from Jason and stood.

Helen turned to the brothers. "Are you two OK?" she asked.

They both nodded.

"He's strong," Sam said.

"It won't matter; we'll perform the human spell on him. We'll make him work with us."

People started to surround them and clapped.

Jason turned to Sam. "It's time to go home."

--------

Back at the cave, the girls were exhausted and crashed on the couch. The brothers gathered the weapons and walked to the training room.

"Do you really think he's going to help us?"

Jason laid his and Megan's sword on the table. "He wouldn't have a choice; you've seen what the spell did to Leria."

Sam laid down the axes. "He's older and more powerful. We both felt it."

Jason walked up to his brother. "It will work; it has to." Then he turned to leave.

"And if it doesn't?"

He shrugged. "Then we kill him and move to the next one." Jason walked out and took Megan's hand. "How about a shower?"

She smiled and led him upstairs.

At dinner, Leria watched everyone eat.

"Aren't you hungry?" Jason asked her looking at her full cup.

"I'm just worried," she said. "Tek is one of the oldest vampires in Seth's army."

"Don't worry; we'll perform the spell on him. He would tell us whatever we want, and heck, maybe he will fight with us."

Leria shook her head. "Are you sure the spell will work on him? What if it doesn't?"

Jason looked at Helen. "Then we let Helen deal with him. One way or another, he would tell us what we want."

The group stood ready as Sam opened a portal. Helen stepped through first, letting her fire protect her. As they entered where Tek was imprisoned, they watched as he came at Helen and then backed off. Jason sat a crystal down and clasped hands with Sam. They muttered the spell and watched as it consumed him.

He laughed. "Is that your plan? To do magic on me?" he walked up to the wall of fire. He held up his hands. "I've been a demon for centuries; you're just children playing with forces you don't understand." He thrust his hand into the fire and then pulled it out. Leria pushed her way to the front.

"Help us; tell us what Seth is afraid of?"

Tek glared at her. "You were always weak, and Seth knew it. Look at you, standing there with them like a puppy."

Leria shook her head. "They gave me back what he took: my humanity."

He laughed pacing back and forth. "What good will it do you? There is no stopping him. Even if you knew where this sword was, you would never find him. It's time for the humans to learn their place in the food chain. Darkness will sweep over the earth, and we will take it as our own."

Leria turned to look at Jason and Sam. "It's a lost cause, so let's show him what we've found." Jason opened a bag and pulled out a diamond-crusted sword.

Tek looked at it and shielded his eyes from the glowing stones and silver. He shook his head. "It can't be; it would have taken powerful magic to recover that from the labyrinth of Hinns."

Leria turned smiling and turned to Tek. "Thank you for your help. Enjoy your stay here." She said backing into the portal.

Back at the cave, Jason threw down a book. "It's in England and said to be protected by several of the oldest witches." He let himself fall into a chair. "Grandpa and Dad were close. They have spells to get past them, but they never had the chance to test them." He sat up. "The book says that only the two of purest hearts can retrieve it."

"Do you think that's us?" Sam asked.

Jason shrugged and stood. "Who else could it be? Pack what we need. We're going to this labyrinth in the morning.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Twenty

Jason, Sam, Leria, and the girls landed in England.

Jason pulled out his map. "It's this way." They hiked down a ravine and along a low stone wall. They stopped looking at a wide and fast running river.

Sam pushed his way to the front. He reached into his pocket and pulled out a small bag and poured some brown powder into his hand. He tossed it in front of him and muttered some words. Seconds later, there was a hiss, then the river hardened and froze.

"Hurry! I don't know how long it will last."

They all rushed to the other side and continued their hike.

Jason stopped to look at his map. He pointed at a forest up ahead. "Through there," he said. As they neared the forest, they stopped on hearing howls and rustles. He unsheathed his sword. "Stay close and watch each other's backs." As he turned back around, he stopped looking at the path ahead. Spiderwebs blocked the way. He stepped forward, and the webs rattled: two huge black spiders came down and hissed at him.

Subsequently, a figure appeared before them. "Go back now," it said. "This is a holy place. And you're not welcomed."

Jason raised his sword. "We are the brothers; we've come for the sword."

When Jason said this, the figure dropped its hood -- a beautiful woman stood before them. She was tall, and her blond hair fell around her shoulders. "Only the worthy can make it to the sword," she said and bowed her head. "I'm Aria; it's protector. The path ahead is a hard one, and only the worthy can make it." She put her hood back on. "Good luck, young brothers." Slowly, she faded away. The spiders hissed and confronted them. Helen pushed them out of the way. The spiders reared back as she burst into flames. Jason slashed out with his sword cutting off some limbs of one of the spiders. The other rushed up a tree and fell on Sam. He screamed as its pinchers snapped open and shut. Trish raised her ax and brought it down on its back. As she hacked away, green ooze splashed all over her. The spider became silent, and she helped Sam push it away. He smiled at her and then pressed his lips to hers. They turned to see Jason and Megan still fighting with the other one. It was much bigger. They joined in hacking it and soon it, too, fell dead.

Helen walked ahead and lit the webs on fire. There was a hiss, then the path ahead cleared. They started forward and walked for about an hour when they head a roar. The brush parted, and out stepped two huge wolf-like dogs.

Jason held his sword up as they circled them.

"Get ready!" he yelled. However, the wolves didn't attack.

"Well, hello there." They all turned to find Seth standing behind them. "It's great to see you again, Leria. I've been so worried." He took a step forward, and Jason pushed his way facing him. Seth laughed. "You two have been busy. When my general came up missing, and his followers were killed, I just knew you two were behind it. But all is not lost; a new general has taken the town," he said smiling. "We are however behind schedule, and that is partly due to you two. I underestimated you brothers." Seth took another step. Sam stepped up beside Jason. Seth stopped and intertwined his fingers. "So powerful, together," he said. "Look at the glow from those weapons. It won't matter though, in seconds you all will be dead, and the sword will be mine." He rushed forward with lightning speed but was knocked back by a bright white light -- Aria. She appeared before them holding out her hand. Seth got to his feet, dusting himself off.

"You are not welcomed here; go while you can," Aria warned him.

Seth shook his head. "You never learn," he said. He rushed forward again, and yet another burst of light hit him, but this time he was able to grab Aria by the neck, picking her up. "I learn fast," he said. "Now, it's time to die, keeper." Jason and his group surrounded him. Jason lashed out with his sword, making contact with Seth's arm, causing him to drop Aria. Aria grabbed her staff and stood beside the brothers. Seth stood holding his shoulder. "You will pay for that." He turned and ran off.

Aria turned to the brothers. "He will be back, and he won't come alone. Follow me."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Twenty-One

They walked behind Aria down a widened path. The forest started to turn pretty and green. Flowers lined the sides of the paths. The trees flower in colors pink, white, and blue.

When they came to face a swinging bridge, she stopped and turned around. "For years, I've guarded this sword. For years, I had hoped for the brothers that were worthy to wield it to come along. It is unorthodox for me to hand it over to you without going through the trials, but there is no time. Follow me." They followed her across the bridge and entered a cave. "For a thousand years, my sister and I guarded the sword. She was killed a few years ago by a vampire," she said as she entered a small hall. Afterward, they exited out into a large cavern. There in the center stood an altar, and bathed in light was the jeweled sword. Aria turned to them. "The sword is protected by powerful magic, and only the two that can beat Seth can take it. You have to be one at heart," she said and then stepped aside. Jason held out his hand to Sam who took it. They immediately were bathed in a glowing light. They walked up to the altar, and both reached out, grasping the sword's hilt. They pulled it from the light holding it high above them. A blinding light filled the room. The brothers were bathed in the same light. As everyone watched, the brothers became one. And a new being stood before them.

"What's happened to them?" Megan asked.

Aria shook her head. "Nothing; they have become one. They are stronger, more powerful, and it's them that will beat Seth." The brothers let go of the sword, and it fell to the ground. Then they separated and stood as themselves.

Jason looked at Sam. "You really need to find a hobby."

Sam just smiled looking over at Trish. Jason picked up the sword. "What happened? It was like he was inside me; I could read his thoughts and see through his eyes."

Aria grinned. "You were joined as one, stronger, faster, and with the sword, you would be unstoppable." She bowed to them. "I offer my service to you," she said holding out her sword.

Jason took the sword. "We would be honored to have you by our side," he said. "Now, stand so that we can go home."

Sam opened a portal as Aria took one last look around. "This has been my home for centuries." She then turned to Jason, who stepped to the side and waited for her to enter the portal.

Back at the cave, they all put their weapons away. Aria watched as the brothers secured the jeweled sword. "Come, we'll find you a room." Upstairs, Jason pushed open a door and stepped to the side, so she can go in. "If you need anything, just ask, and the room will provide it." Aria nodded as Jason left.

He joined the rest of the group downstairs. Megan rushed to him.

"What was it like being one with Sam?" she asked as she led him to the couch.

Jason looked at Sam. "I don't know how to explain it. It was as though I was him. I could hear his thoughts. Feel what he felt, and I'm certain he's having too much sex."

The group laughed. Trish dropped her head looking ashamed.

They all turned as Aria came down the stairs. "What's next?" she asked.

"We find out where they are going to attack next and we attack. Sooner or later, we will find Seth."

Aria shook her head. "You won't find him. You must make him come to you. You have to draw him out." She then looked around. "You've been hiding from him. You have the sword, and he will feel its power and come after it." She turned back to them. "We have to capture one of his generals."

Jason grinned. "We already have one."

The group stood and watched as Jason and Sam grasped the sword. The bright light returned, and when it subsided, they had become one. They opened a portal. Helen went first, and they followed. Tek rushed her but backed away fast. The Brothers walked forward, out of the fire. Tek smiled and attacked them. But their hand caught him by the throat.

He struggled to get free. "It's not possible," he said as they threw him and held up the sword. Tek got to his feet. "Kill me!" he yelled.

"Not before you tell us what we want to know."

Tek shook his head and rushed them. "I won't tell you anything." The brothers sidestepped, and he missed. They watched as he stopped just before he came in contact with the fire. Then he turned to face them. The sword rose into the air as he charged at them again and slashed him at the back. He screamed as he turned around.

The brothers' hand rose into the air, and Tek was pushed against the wall, trapped.

They walked over to him and made cuts on his arms and legs. "You have a few hours before you are drained. Tell us where Seth will be next and we'll help you." They turned walking back through the fire. "You have an hour."

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Twenty-two

One hour later, the brothers returned to face Tek. He now stood in his own blood.

He looked up at the brothers. "It doesn't matter; you will never stop him."

Afterward, he told them what towns were next. And then he started laughing hysterically. The brothers turned around and beheaded him. They watched as he turned to a pile of dust.

The group spent the next few days studying the map and training. Aria also used the time to explain the sword's power to them: "It makes you one; your powers joined. It gives you power, speed, and strength. You have to accept being one and don't dwell on each other's thoughts. Act as one; be one." She pulled out her sword. The brothers took both their hands and then the sword. They merged and stood before Aria. "Good, now let's see how good you are."

She thrust a blow toward them, which they easily blocked. She then swung at their head. They ducked and slashed her across the leg. She fell to her knee. The brothers brought their sword to her throat. She dropped her sword admitting defeat. They turned sitting the sword down and becoming themselves. As they separated, a warm white glow filled the room -- Sara. She walked over to Aria and healed her leg.

She then stood smiling at her sons. "Things are going to get rough. Know that I'm always with you." Then she disappeared.

Jason helped Aria up. "Are you OK?"

She nodded pushing him away. "You learn fast," she said looking down at her leg.

"We're so sorry," Sam said.

She shook her head. "You have nothing to be sorry for."

They turned walking into the other room. The girls were waiting for them there. Jason held out his hand and led Megan upstairs.

He closed the door as she walked in. "I want you to stay here tomorrow," he said as she turned to face him.

She smiled shaking her head and walked over to him, pressing her lips to his. "No chance." She pulled off his shirt as he pushed her back onto the bed.

Seth pounded his fist on the table angrily as he looked around at his generals. "They have the sword. Tell me how they could find it and you couldn't?" He walked around behind them.

"It was protected, sir," one of them finally said.

He shook his head while walking behind the man that spoke. "That's not my problem," he said as he pulled back his hand and shoved it through the man's head. Withdrawing his hand, he slung the blood and brain matter from his fingers. "They will be coming for me," he continued. He stopped at the head of the table and sat down. "We will continue to evade as planned, but this time, we will do it together. You will all converge on the next town. You will stay away until they come to me, and then you will come. You will subdue them, and I will kill them slowly." Then he pounded his fist on the table. "Now, go and get ready!"

The generals hurried out of the room. Seth stood and grabbed a man that had been tied up. He picked him up. "I'm going to kill you now," he said opening his mouth and letting his fangs extend. He tore into his victim's neck, sucking his blood. The man struggled but soon fell to the ground, dead. He then turned to look out the window. Bodies laid in piles all over the streets. The humans who were still alive were chained and being pushed down the street. All would be food; some breeders. Tomorrow would be the beginning of the end for the brothers, and this world would be his.

The next morning, Aria handed Jason the jeweled sword and bowed her head as she did. Leria walked up putting on some armor. She pulled two short swords from her back and smiled. Megan and Trish stood to the side pulling back their hair.

Helen walked in and stood before them. "It's going to be dangerous; Seth knows we're coming," she said.

Jason hugged her. "If we stand together, we can beat him," he assured. "We watch each other's backs and stay within sight of one another."

Sam walked over. "As one!" he yelled taking Jason's hand.

|  |

---|---|---

# Chapter Twenty-Three

The brothers and their small army took the portal to the center of town.

Jason turned to Helen. "Stay close to the girls and keep them safe." She nodded.

After a few steps into the town, vampires, from all sides, surrounded them.

And moments later, Seth walked out from the darkness and clapped his hands. "Welcome. Welcome to my town."

Jason clasped hands with Sam, then they both grabbed the hilt of the sword. The bright blaze from the merge caused Seth to shield his eyes. Seth looked at the new being standing before them. "How does it feel?"

The brothers raised their sword. "Why don't you come and see."

Seth shook his head. "Nah, you always send in the pawns first." He raised his hands, and a small horde of vampires attacked the brothers. The brothers raised their sword and cut down a whole row. They looked back at Helen and the girls. Lyria and Aria walked up beside of them raising their weapons too. Seth backed off into the waiting crowd. They fought and fought not making a dent in the coming vampires. Helen pushed them back and unleashed her power. The fire erupted all around them. The brothers held the sword high, shielding them. When Helen let her power recede, most of the vampires were dead, but some still lunged toward them. The brothers immediately pushed Helen out of the way, and their sword cut through several. Aria and Lyria, too, rushed forward and cut into the many vampires. The brothers marched on cutting them down. Helen also used her power to decimate the vampires' ranks as she carried on. Done with this horde, they proceeded further into the street and watched as Seth went into a big building.

"It's a trap!" Lyria warned. "I haven't seen any of his generals; they will be his oldest and more powerful resistance." The brothers nodded and walked on. When they entered the building, they saw Seth standing at the front clapping his hands.

"You made it," Seth said. "Come on in and join us."

The brothers turned opening a portal. "Take them home." They said to Helen. However, Lyria and Aria shook their heads and walked up beside them. Trish and Megan tried too, but the brothers pushed them into it. "Keep them safe," they instructed as Helen followed them inside. Afterward, they turned to face Seth and walked up to him. Soon, another band of vampires emerged and surrounded them.

"I want you to meet my generals," Seth said with a mischievous grin.

Undeterred, the brothers raised the sword. "Let's see what you have."

Seth raised his hands, and the generals attacked. The girls and the brothers fought for what seemed like hours. The generals were obviously tougher and smarter than the hordes of vampires they'd fought.

At some point, the brothers raised their sword to take a swipe at one of the vampires. But he evaded their swing and leaped over them, clawing the brothers at the back. Swiftly, they turned around and beheaded it, but another vampire took its place. They went blow after blow until cutting off its leg, and then, the head. They watched as the girls also fought with their own vampire foe. The brothers immediately went to Lyria's aid and slashed the vampire she was fighting. Then they turned to Aria. Again, they cut down the vampire she was fighting in half.

Seth watched as they slashed through his generals. He let out a heavy growl and started toward them. "You want me?" The brothers looked his way. "Go!" he commanded his generals. The vampires turned and ran, moving up to the balcony. Seth walked up to the brothers. They raised their sword. "Come on!" he said. As the brothers took a swing, he was gone in a flash. "I'm back here," he taunted. They turned to take a jab at him. And Lyria also ran at him, slashing with her swords. He stepped out of the way and grabbed her by the neck. The brothers held up their sword. "She betrayed me," Seth said. He squeezed so tightly until her head was severed. He dusted off his hands with a smirk.

Aria walked up by the brothers. "We have to stop him," she said. Seth's attention snapped to her. "Why don't you try, little girl?" Aria charged at him, moving with tremendous speed.  But Seth raised his hands to block her blows. He began to laugh, then he kicked her. The kick sent her crashing into a nearby wall, after which she fell unconscious on the ground.

The brothers rushed him. Seth jumped up over them, kicking the sword out of their hand. He watched as they separated and clapped his hands. Immediately, Seth's generals pounced on Jason and Sam, restraining them. Seth picked up the sword. "Pick them up and hold them." He walked up to Jason and smacked him across the face over and over. Then, he looked at Sam and kicked him at the leg, breaking his knee. Sam hit the ground screaming in pains. Jason wiped the blood from his eyes while looking up at Seth who raised the sword. "Now, to end this!" he said.
Also by Michael Lee Ables Jr.

Midnight Saga

Midnight

The Brothers' Chronicles

Seth

The Lucy Walker Chronicles

Before The Lucy Walker Chronicles

Book #1 The Beginning

Standalone

Legends

A Mother's Snowflake

Cheyenne & The Easter Bunny

Midnight 2

Wolf: The Beginning

Cheyenne and the Mermaids

Cheyenne & The Witches

Cheyenne and the Great Christmas Rescue

Watch for more at Michael Lee Ables Jr.'s site.

# About the Author

Michael grew up in the hills of West Vrginia. A graduate of Lewis County High School, and WV Business college.  Writing became a favorite past time.  He loves spending time with his animals, and his family.

Read more at Michael Lee Ables Jr.'s site.
