

THREE CHOICES

THE MILLIONAIRE (part 1)

By

L C Dorsey

SMASHWORDS EDITION

*****

PUBLISHED BY:

L C Dorsey

Copyright © 2013 by L C Dorsey

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold

or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person,

please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did

not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to

Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work

of this author.

Look for other books by L C Dorsey

*****

THREE CHOICES The Millionaire

*****

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents either are the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously and any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, business establishments, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.

Acknowledgments

I want to thank my husband for putting up with my late night writings. My friends and family for also helping and encouraging me to keep writing so they could keep reading. And thanks to those who gave this new author a look.

I Love you all.

Chapter 1

After being on a cramped airplane, Faith could not wait to see her boyfriend, Malcolm. She had been planning this trip to surprise him. He had wanted her to come with him to Pensacola, Florida while he set up a new network system at the police headquarters there, but she was only able to visit on weekends because of her work schedule. So this week would be huge for both of them. Faith had taken the entire week off to be with Malcolm, even leaving work early so she could be at his apartment when he got home from work.

Once Faith was off the plane she rushed to the car rental counter to pick up her car. As she drove to Malcolm's apartment all she could think about was how happy they would be in the coming week. Even though he would have to work, they would be able to spend every evening together. She was so excited that the stress of the last several weeks at work just seemed to roll off as if it never happened.

Not being able to see one another in over a month was getting to both of them and Faith could tell by the tone of Malcolm's voice it seemed to bother him more than he said in words. Especially when they were about to end their call. It was just something in his voice lately that didn't sound like the Malcolm she knew. But she figured her voice may sound about the same to him because she was missing Malcolm more than she thought possible. Then again, she had never loved anyone as much as she loved Malcolm.

After Faith got everything taken care of at work to be off for the next week, she carefully planned every detail of her surprise for Malcolm. She had called ahead and found out that he would be working at the police headquarters instead of working from home so she would be there when he returned home. She double checked to make sure that she had her key to his apartment, and even texted him that she would be in meetings all day and would not be able to talk with him on the phone. Every detail had been covered.

As she finally pulled up to his apartment and parked she noticed Malcolm's car in his assigned space. At first worry came into her mind, but she quickly remembered him telling her he sometimes rode in to work with the other IT specialist that was from his firm.

Finally getting out of the car she grabbed her suitcase from the back seat, just as his neighbor was walking to his car and gave her a polite smile. "Hello again, haven't seen you in a while," he said. She had met him when Malcolm had first moved in at the apartments.

"Hi." She said, returning his smile. "I've been working. Thought I would come down and surprise him."

"You'll surprise, him, alright," he said as his voice seemed to get a little high. "I have to run. I'm late for work. Maybe I'll catch you later." He gave a wave and hurried to his car.

Faith just smiled, but not really sure why his statement seemed a little odd. But she was not going to think about that now she had things to do before Malcolm got home. She had planned on making his favorite meal, chicken Alfredo.

As she stood in front of the apartment door, she thought she heard voices coming from inside the apartment. But they seemed to stop. Shaking her head she located her key, unlocked the door and walked into the apartment. Once she closed the door she began to hear muffled male voices again. She listened as she placed her key on the table and sat her luggage on the floor. She was beginning to think that maybe Malcolm had left his television on before he went to work. But as she walked toward the bedroom to inspect the sound she was sure the voices she could hear did not come from a television because they were too clear. Just as she stood outside the door she heard Malcolm's voice clearly. With a smile on her face, she opened the door and stepped in only to get the surprise of her life.

Malcolm was sitting on the foot of the bed naked and with his hands fisted in the hair on the head of another man. The man was on his knees with his mouth sucking on Malcolm's cock. Malcolm's head was back and his eyes were closed moaning and talking between moans. "Oh shit. Yes. Take it all." And the man was moaning as he sucked and his hands squeezed Malcolm's thighs.

Faith was in such shock by what she was seeing in front of her that she couldn't speak or move. Her only senses working were hearing and seeing. She could hear Malcolm moans of pleasure with another man and see his expressions. The same sounds and looks he gave when they made love. Just as her anger started to move to the front of her mind and bring her out of her shocked state Malcolm turned his head towards the door where she stood and their eyes met. The pleasure that was on his face was replaced with the look of horror. But still she couldn't move.

"Faith." Malcolm said in a voice just above a whisper, snapping Faith out of her shock. The man, on his knees, stopped and looked up at Malcolm from the sound of hearing Faith's name and followed the direction of Malcolm's gaze. Finally able to blink, think and move she stepped out of the room, slamming the door behind her and running for the front door. She grabbed her suitcase along the way back to the car. She could hear Malcolm yelling for her. "Faith. Faith. Stop. Baby, please!" But it was too late she was already out of the apartment.

While pulling out of the parking space she could see Malcolm half- dressed in jeans and running at full speed out of the apartment yelling for her to stop. "Faith, Faith. Stop. Please stop!" But she just sped up running stop signs, flying over speed bumps and almost hitting a moving truck as she turned onto the main road with the sound of her squealing tires drowning out Malcolm's cries.

Faith drove straight back to the airport, checked the rental car back in and purchased the first ticket out of Florida, which was leaving in thirty minutes that had already started boarding. She was numb. Almost a walking zombie just going through the motions just to get on the plane, but the TSA officer calling to her woke her up.

"Miss. Your phone is ringing."

Faith just huffed because she knew it was Malcolm calling and said, "It is. Thank you." Taking her bag from the officer and walked towards the boarding terminal were an attendant was checking in another passenger. Standing in line Faith reached into her purse and pulled out her phone to silence it just as she looked up and saw Malcolm coming into the doors looking left and right searching for her with his phone on his ear. She sent one text just before she turned off her phone and turned her attention to the flight attendant and boarded the plane. Taking her seat in first class, she then buckled her belt and put her head in her hands and cried herself to sleep.

When Faith arrived at her destination and stepped out into the terminal waiting area looking for the man she could always count on to make her feel better by wrapping her up in his arms. The arms where she could always find comfort, and would give her strength. The arms that she found waited for her just in the middle of the floor. The arms she rushed to. "Thanks for being here," she said through the knot in her throat just as the tears began to fall again.

Kissing her on the head and holding her tight, he whispered, "I'm always here for you Faith. Never doubt that." They just stood holding each other for what seemed like hours, until he picked up on her bag with one hand not letting go of her with the other and they walked out to his waiting car with her cradled into his side.

Chapter 2

Five Months later

"You know that you are going to have to talk to him at some point to get him to stop calling you."

"It's been months. I had his clothes he kept at my place sent to him along with the necklace he gave me on my birthday. I even sent a nice note. Why do I need to speak to him?"

"Faith, the note said, 'I'm done'. Don't get me wrong, I loved it. It's just the thing I would do, but you know that will not keep him from calling. If anything, that made him more determined to talk you. You know how he is. Has he come to see you yet?"

"He comes every weekend. I have taken him off my approved guest list at the front desk. But that does not stop him from coming by and sitting in the lobby. Two weeks ago, he stayed downstairs about four hours calling and texting me the entire time he was there. Devin asked me if he should call the cops."

"Faith! You didn't!"

"Rach, of course not! I'm mad and hurt not evil like you."

"Tsk, Tsk. It is good to be Rachel Stacks, so I will take that as a compliment and not as the insult you intended it to be," she said with a smirk.

"I just wish he would stop calling me. During the week he calls every day at least six times. He should just throw himself in this work and find someone else."

"That would be a change for him. Since the reason you are so mad is because he was "thrusting" himself into someone," Rachel said laughing.

Faith just plastered on a smile. Because she knew Rachel was just one of those people that always could find humor in anything, even a funeral. And usually Faith would be able to laugh with her but this was different. This was about her pain. "You are not helping, Rach, and this is not funny."

"Hey, just take this situation for what it is. A very bad and sad joke at your expense and move on. Atlanta is full of some good men. You just have to weed them out. There is someone out there for you." Rachel said being as supportive as she could.

"You're right. Maybe I should just laugh about it and move on. But with him calling everyday it is kinda hard," Faith said. "I'm going home and just try to relax this weekend and go about everyday as if I had never met Malcolm Banks. I'll call you later." Faith then stood, picked up her purse and gave her best friend a hug.

As Faith drove home from Rachel's that night she thought a lot about what her friend had said. How some of the things Rachel said made sense and some things she just did not want to think about. The part about how Malcolm would react to what she had done with his clothes and sending him the note. And in all honesty, she really didn't care why or how he reacted. He was the one who hurt her.

The only good thing that Faith could take from what Rachel had said and would think about was going out and forgetting about Malcolm. And it is a saying, 'That to get over a man you should put another one under you.' It was Rachel's remedy whenever something went bad or was hard to deal with. She would just laugh it off, find a boy toy and have a drink.

Faith and Rachel have been best friends from the first time they met in college their freshman year. That was when she realized that Rachel was her strength when she needed and would always be there for her and she would be there for Rachel.

During their college years they were more like sisters instead of friends. They could be bickering with each other one minute and out shopping the next. They had cried with each other and laughed with each other.

Rachel Stacks, the girl from Portland, Oregon who spoke her mind and stood firm in any discussion she made was the best kind of friend to have. Rachel was from a large family, so she did her best to escape. They were either lawyers or doctors and she wanted to become a social worker. Her parents were so pissed, that they stopped paying her tuition, which didn't bother her too much because Rachel was working and had earned some scholarships in college. But Rachel just smiled and pushed herself further to achieve her degree and land her dream job as a social worker at the social security office which did not pay as much.

They supported each other well. When Rachel needed someone she had Faith and when Faith needed someone she had Rachel. But this time she needed her friend to do something but she just didn't know what to do or what she wanted. The advice Faith wanted, she knew she could not get from Rachel because she never had problems with her love life that Faith seemed to keep having. She had thought that Malcolm was different, the one.

Malcolm Banks was everything Faith had dreamed of and more. He was smart, easy to talk to, funny, and loved going to the museum with her even to look at that the same pictures over and over again. And he didn't look bad either with his bronze, track body that was well defined with not an ounce of fat on him, which was a perfect fit for his six-two height. His voice was deep and crisp that would hypnotize her just by saying, hello. His eyes were a gray that could look into your soul and make you feel safe and calm. He could do things to her body, giving her orgasms like she had never had before. Maybe that should have been the dead giveaway that something was not right.

Once home, Faith sat on her couch flipping from channel to channel looking to anything that would take her mind away from the "Now" that was her life. Her cell chirped yet again from texts and missed voicemails from Malcolm that she had yet to listen to or read. He had called, texted, emailed and showed up at her home more often than he did when they were together. There was a time she would have answered every call from him on the first ring just to hear his voice, but now the last thing she ever wanted to hear was his voice. All she could see when she closed her eyes was him with another man. Doing things to him that she thought only she could. It just sickened her that she was just blind into thinking that Malcolm would never hurt her.

But just as Faith was thinking she needed to get her act together and not live in the pain that Malcolm caused she heard her phone chirp again. She knew what she wanted to do. She could call Rachel and let her know she was going to take her advice. That would make Rachel's head swell more and she would be on her high post all night knowing that Faith would have taken her advice about getting out to get over Malcolm. Faith jumped up saying, "To hell with this" and went straight to her closet to find her little Black Dress, Rachel calls a woman's pick me up, and her buckle black stilettos. The heels were a bribe, gift that cost over eight hundred dollars, from one of her ex-cheating ass boyfriends so that she wouldn't tell his wife. The shoes alone would pick up Faith's mood, but since she could not walk around nude the dress had to be worn. Those shoes were the only thing she had from her previous relationships. She made it a practice to keep nothing. If she got rid of the man she got rid of everything that reminded her of him. Her luck in the men's department lately seemed to be taking a bad turn for the worst.

After a quick shower Faith got dressed in her black slip dress that laid on her body's every curve. It stopped just half way down her thighs and the sleeves came down to just above her elbows with a split down the side to show her upper arms. But the dress alone did not make her feel good, it was when she put on her buckle black strapped stilettos that had two strips across her toes and a buckle strip at her ankle. The shoes complimented her legs that were scar free, smooth and toned. When she wore the two together every man would stop and see only her. It was the ego boost she needed right now and she knew where to go on a Friday night just for that boost.

*****

Once Faith finished her hair and makeup she walked to Clay's bar in the hotel across the street from her condo. As she walked towards the hotel she noticed it was busier than normal for a Friday night and more people were everywhere.

When Faith got to the entrance of the bar, she paused as if she was looking for someone, but really making sure everyone was looking at her. And that they did. As Faith made her way through the crowd of the dimly lit bar, she found that her favorite spot was empty and walked just slow enough to feel the many eyes watching her as she took her seat slowly. She made sure that every eye got a good look of her from her head to her feet. She even glanced at a couple of those eyes, giving them a smile.

When Terrell, the bartender, saw her come in he started making her favorite drink, an apple martini. And just as she sat down, he placed the glass in front of her.

"Thanks Terrell," Faith said, flashing him a friendly smile. Terrell was the only man who spoke what was on his mind to her and she enjoyed his company because he was always so nice and never judged or pushed his opinion on her like Rachel would at times.

"It's nice to see you looking a lot better than you did about five months ago. And that dress... Girl you are going to cause a brawl." He paused, looking at her with a heat in his eyes that she had never seen before. "Um, um"

"Why, Terrell, are you flirting with me?"

"What if I was?" he smiled.

Avoiding the question Faith responded, "Oh, Terrell you do know how to make a lady feel good on a Friday night."

"So, did you dump that gay boyfriend of yours?" he asked accepting her avoidance of his question.

"How did you know he was gay and not bi?" Faith questioned with a shock.

"Look any person that does the deed with a person of their same sex is gay. Plain and simple is how I see it. You either want a bun or a hot dog. But you can't have both and be happy. Which is why I am so happy. I like buns."

"Was I that blind, Terrell? That I didn't notice him cheating?"

"No, I wouldn't say blind. You just saw what your heart wanted you to see. Sometimes it even shows us things we don't want to see," he said smirking, "I'll be right back I have to get some drinks."

Just as Terrell walked away, Faith began sipping on her drink, looking around at all the people laughing and enjoying their Friday night. But she was getting a feeling that someone was watching her as she watched the others. Not noticing anyone staring strangely at her, she continued sipping on her drink.

The night was working out very well for Faith. She was getting the attention she was looking for and had not thought about Malcolm at all. She was enjoying herself like the old Faith. As her third male admirer walked away after some very small talk Terrell returned with another glass.

"Faith," he said singing her name. Boy, he had great timing. "Are you alright?"

"Yeah! Enjoying my Friday night. What are all the people here for?"

"There with some big national meeting for young business professionals. They are only here until tomorrow morning when there key note speaker gives his speech."

"Really! Funny, I didn't hear anything about it. But I have been a little busy soaking." She said as they both began to laugh. Laughing with Terrell always seemed to make her feel better.

"You know it is great to hear you laugh again," he said with that look in his eyes again.

"It feels great to be laughing again." As she finished saying the last word she notice that look in Terrell eyes again. A look that she had seen him give to a woman he was either dating or wanted to. But they were friends and her love life was just, so screwed up right now. It must be true what Rachel said about him a year over ago; he had a crush on her. But Terrell was really just a good friend.

"With all the people here you should be doing very well in the tip department," she said breaking the eye contact they held.

Terrell just smiled not saying a word, but showing off those gorgeous, perfect, white teeth.

"Well, by your expression I guess I should be expecting my beach vacation paid voucher soon. Because I really need a relaxing vacation." Faith could not help herself and starting laughing again.

"Faith I hate to leave again, but it is Friday night. We will talk again later about that vacation, okay."

"Sure."

After sometime later the bar cleared out more with only a few people left and Faith began to relax even more. Not sure if it was the drinks making her relax or if she really just needed to get out to move on from "him". But all of a sudden she hears a smooth, mellow voice from behind her that sounding like sex, warm and melting that gave Faith a slow tingle down her back.

"I've been watching you all night. But I'm sure am not the only gentleman doing that," the voice whispered.

"Well, I hoped you have enjoyed the view or should I say entertainment," Faith said in a seductive tone to match his.

"I've really enjoyed the view from behind, but the view from the front is what caught my attention."

With a roll of her eyes Faith slowly turned around to the voice and was shocked by the wonderful sight. It was a man about six three, green eyes, caramel skin, the prettiest white teeth, next to Terrell, and face that had to have been blessed twice by God. And it was easy to see that he was a man who had seen the inside of the gym quite a few times. His body was well built as the clothes he wore looked like it was made just for him. The way the jacket sat on his shoulders and the first two buttons on his shirt were unbutton making him look even hotter showing just a little of his chest. And now that tingle was going lower below to her stomach and even lower.

"Now that's what I walked over here for," he said smiling at Faith. "Has anyone told you that you have the prettiest eyes?"

Faith could only stare at him, speechless, lost in her own thoughts of how good the man in front of her looked. He had to be a dream because no one looked that damn good for real.

"Miss, are you okay?" he asked, snapping Faith back from her daydream. He had to know that he made women speechless.

"Yes," Faith replied trying her best to keep shock out of her voice.

"I just thought I lost you there for a second."

'Oh, you did lose me all right. And still half lost. And if you look as good from the back as you do from the front...What wouldn't I do to get you in my bedroom and...Don't think like that and get a grip.' Faith was thinking to herself.

"Since you have been stalking me, what is it that I can do for you?"

"Have a drink with me," he said, flashing that smile again and holding up his glass.

"I'm sorry you walked over for that because I have had my limit of drinks for the evening."

"Oh, well would you mind keeping me company while I finish my drink?"

I would do more that keep you company. Oh, my goodness, I have to focus. Faith was thinking to herself again.

"Let's start with introductions. I'm Armon Carter," he said, extending his hand.

"Nice to meet you Mr. Carter. I'm Faith Moore.

Once she touched his hand, she instantly felt a warm tingle and this time it ran from her hand through her body. The feeling at first was shocking, but so good to a point that she did not want to let go. As she removed her hand from his the feeling went away just as fast as it came making Faith miss it as if she had always had it.

"I haven't seen you at any of the meetings. Did you just arrive to hear the keynote speaker?" Armon asked, taking the seat next to Faith.

"No. I had no idea all of this was going on here until after I got here. Are you here for all of this?"

"You can say so. I just arrived late Thursday afternoon."

"So when are you leaving?"

"Late Saturday. I will rest before heading back home to start to work again. And what about you, Ms. Moore? When do you leave?"

"Oh, I'm not staying at the hotel I live in Atlanta. This peach state is my home. I just come here for some drinks and to relax. And please call me, Faith."

"What kind of job would a lady like you need to relax from, Faith?"

"I'm a Medical Billing Manager at a hospital. Which on some days can be very busy and stressful. And my best friend convinced me to go out and well what can I say." She laughed, thinking about what Rachel would say looking at this gorgeous man.

"Your friend must be a handful."

"She's my best so what can I say. So where is home for you?"

"Home now is in Orlando. I just moved there about six months ago."

"Did you move there to be near a certain little mouse?" Faith asked, smiling not being able to help herself because the drinks were starting to show through.

"You are a very funny woman Faith. But to answer your question, no, I moved there for the weather. I'm originally from Washington. And wanted to know what a real summer was. Rain every other day gets old real fast," he said, taking his last drink from his glass.

"Well, Mr. Carter it seems that you have finished your drink and now I must go." Faith said flashing her own smile looking at his glass.

"Well, now, if I call you by your first name you should do the same. And I still have ice in my glass. We could wait for it to melt." He said laughing.

"Oh, sorry, Armon. But I do believe it is time for me to leave. And it was nice meeting you," Faith said extending her hand.

"Well, that was the deal. I hope to see you again Faith and maybe talk a little more," he said, placing a kiss on her hand and smiled.

Faith gave a pleasant look, then left the bar and headed home, but not before stopping at a couple more bars for her good vibe boost to her ego. Once home, she got her first good night's sleep in five months. And for once she did not fall asleep thinking about Malcolm but she was thinking about a man.

Chapter 3

Faith could hear the sound of crunching in her dreams pulling her from her deep sleep. The sweet smells of lavender seemed to fill her nose and she knew she was not dreaming. As she slowly opened her eyes Rachel came into focus.

"Rise and shine sleepy head." Rachel sang out.

This was not one of the times where Faith was happy they each had a key to the others home. "What are you doing here?"

"I have been calling you all night. Why didn't you answer her phone?"

"I turned it off last night. Malcolm would not stop calling or texting and I got tired of hearing my phone go off," Faith said blinking and sitting up.

"You should have left your phone on because the gay blade called me last night. Asked me to talk to you about meeting him for a drink. I told him to drop dead."

"Well, thanks. And I'm sorry he called you last night," Faith said yawning.

"No problem," Rachel said, sitting on the bed. "So, where were you last night? And don't say you didn't go out because I saw those black heels by the door."

"I was out bar hopping."

"Alone! Why didn't you call me? I was stuck with Colin and his friends last night. They are such asses. But he loves hanging out with them and me. Says he wants me to like them as much he does."

"You know what that means don't you? He wants to commit," Faith said, flashing a grin. She knew Rachel had not thought about it because Colin had said, more than once he wasn't ready to get married and just wanted to have a good time with Rachel. Which Rachel took as he wanted to "sow his oaks" in another field. But the man was faithful. He would swim the Atlantic for her if she only asked.

Colin Wells is Rachel's boyfriend of three years. He works across the street from Rachel at a temporary service as a consultant. They are a perfect match in every way. They enjoy the same foods, enjoy doing the same things and even have some of the same habits, good and bad. The only thing different about them is Rachel is ready to get married and, Colin isn't.

"You think? I thought the same thing, but just didn't want to get my hopes up. I love him, but haven't told him yet because I think it will scare him away. He has been acting differently lately and I didn't want to see something that isn't there. The other day when he came to my office for lunch, he kissed me and I thought he was going to take me right there in the break room, if you know what I mean," Rachel said with a smile.

"If all goes well it seems you will beat me to the church house."

"You did come pretty close. I haven't even got the guy to say he loves me." Rachel said getting up from the bed. "Now get up we are going shopping for some new shoes. I just had my toes done and ready to put them on display in something red."

"Sure, let me get a shower first and then we can go." Faith said, finally getting out of the bed yarning.

"Did your bar hopping help you think about what to do with Malcolm or did you just get him out your system?"

"The last thing I wanted to do last night was to think about Malcolm. He was the reason I went out. Right now he is the last person in the world, I want to think about. And I will not be doing anything with him. I never want to see him again. And what I was looking at last night almost made me forget my own name."

"Did you get your mind blown last night or did you blow his? Is that the real reason you slept in late?"

"Really, are you asking me that? To answer your question I did not get laid last night. I went to Clay's, mother dear." Faith said, grabbing some clothes out of her closet.

"Oh, I see. You went to see Terrell. I would to. The man is fine. If I wasn't dating Colin I would take him to the hills and back." Rachel said with her devilish smile and rubbing her hands together because every thought that goes through her head has something to do with sex.

"There was a guy there that was drop dead beautiful. He had been staring at me all night. His eyes were...and his body was so...and his smile was so...Girl I think I could have had his baby right there," Faith said laughing.

"Come on now, what was the name of this man angel who kept your mind off your ex?"

"Armon Carter."

"That name sound familiar. Where is he from?"

"Don't start. He is not from here and I will not be seeing him again. I will be right out and we will go." Faith said going into her bathroom to take her shower.

Faith emerged from the bathroom fully dressed, all but for her shoes, Rachel was sitting on the bed typing on her cellphone. "Ready to go, Rach?"

"Do you know there's not a lot of Armon Carter's out there? You are going to have to give me something more on the man from the bar. Was he black coffee or a vanilla shake?"

"Are you looking him up online? I told you that I will not be seeing him again. He was only here for some seminar."

"Okay. So you really just came home by yourself last night and let a great one night stand go? Girl, you have to get with it."

"Yes, I let it go."

"You were sleeping really good and hard," Rachel said squinting. "I only sleep that good after Colin and I have been up all night. So did you pull out your B.O.B.?"

"You know your mind is really warped for a woman. And you know I don't have a B.O.B." Faith just looked at her friend and smiled because Rachel always amazed her by how she associated everything with sex or sex toys.

"Well, just checking. I know you haven't been getting enough sleep in the last few months. Right now your face looks better than it has in a while. And you do have a little battery operated boyfriend. I bought you one, remember?" Rachel said smiling.

Oh, yes, Rachel did buy Faith one as a gift right after one of her breakups. She had forgotten about it because she had no plans on ever using it. "I told you, I would not be using that thing, ever."

"Look at this!" Rachel said, turning her phone so that Faith could see the picture on her screen. "Is that him?" she asked.

Faith took the phone out her hand and looked at the man on the phone which was indeed the drop dead gorgeous man from last night. "Yes, that's him," she said, handing Rachel back her phone.

"Well, did you go up to his room for some "not sleep"?" Rachel said as they both starting laughing. "Look at his bio. He has the plus three. Loaded, single and good looking. He's thirty-two, a millionaire, owns several computer chip companies and some IT firms, and has no kids. What more could anyone ask for and you had drinks with him at a hotel, which you live right across the street from. You could not have prayed for a better layout."

"You know what I don't want to talk to you about last night. All I want to do is go shopping and talk about you and Colin." Rachel would never pass up an opportunity to talk about Colin. No matter what she said she was in love with that man.

Just as Faith and Rachel were making their way out of the elevator the attendant at the front desk called. "Ms. Moore, I have something for you." The ladies walked to the counter to see what Faith had gotten.

"Hi, Devin. How have you been lately?" Faith asked with a polite smile.

"Just fine. Been busy with school, that's all. But these came for you about five minutes ago" Devin said, pushing over the large flower arrangement of roses on the counter.

"Well, those are beautiful. What do you want to guess they came from Malcolm?" Rachel said as Faith grabbed the card on top.

Thanks for keeping me company.

But next time, let us both start with fresh drinks.

Armon Carter

Faith just smiled and said, "They are not from Malcolm."

"What, then who from?"

Turning the card to face Rachel, Faith continued to smile. Rachel snatched the card from Faith reading it. "Are you kidding me! You sure you are not going to see him again because it looks like he would like to see you."

"Look, Rach, he does not live in Atlanta. He was only here for the meeting at the Hotel, which is over today. I will not be seeing any more of Mr. Carter. He was just being nice."

"You know what, Faith. You are naïve and that is why a gay guy fooled you. Let's go strengthen the economy with the purchase of a few things." Rachel said, putting the card back on the counter with a huff.

"Devin, I'll be back for the flowers." Faith said walking towards the door.

After lunch and hours of shopping with Rachel, Faith returned home and just looked at the flowers she sat on her coffee table. Read the card thinking about what Rachel had said about Armon wanting to see her again. He did say he was leaving right after the convention, so odds are he was not even in Atlanta now, let alone at the hotel? "What would be the harm in going over to see if he had left and I could find out how he knew where I lived," Faith said to herself.

*****

When Faith walked into Clay's she started to scan the faces there, but this time looking for one in particular. But was surprised when she heard that voice from behind her yet again that sent a tingle down her spine. "I have been waiting for you." What is it about this man's voice? She thought.

"How nice of you to wait for me. Considering you had no idea that I would come."

"I had a feeling. And it seems that feeling was right on target," Armon said with smugness.

"I didn't know you would be here. You did say you were leaving after the speech." Faith said after she turned around to face Armon finally. He looked even better than he did the night before. It seemed as if his smile got brighter, his eyes looked greener and lips, oh God, he licked his lips. He had to know how good he looked.

"Did you get the flowers and the card? I hoped you liked them."

"Yes, they were very pretty. Thank you."

"So can I assume that is why you came back this evening?" He smiled almost as if he knew sending those would make her come.

"Maybe. But your card was not very clear about 'next time'."

"If I had, would you have come earlier?" Armon gave a half smile.

"I came to find out how you knew where I lived and for a drink."

"Well by all means let's get you a drink. And I will try to answer your question the best that I can. Armon extended his arm and Faith hooked hers through his and they took a seat at the booth in the far corner of the bar where the lighting was very low and with only a candle on the table.

Armon waved at the waitress and she came and took their drink orders and left. As he looked across the table at Faith noticing how her light skin seemed to glow in low light and with eyes of brown that seemed to dance and smile. And her hair looked like several shades of brown as the candlelight flickered. "I'm happy you came out tonight. There is something I wanted to ask you."

"Great because I would like for you to answer my question first." Faith said with a light smile on her face. "How did you know where I lived?"

"What if told you that I was a resourceful man."

"That would not answer my question."

"What if I told you I asked the bartender?"

"I would know you were a liar because he would never tell you or anyone where I lived," Faith said."

Armon just laughed before saying. "Well I wouldn't want to be a liar. But I am a resourceful man."

As the waitress returned with their drinks Faith took a sip. "Evasion must be an art form to you because you still have not answered my question."

"It is something I am usually good at which other people don't seem to not notice but with you I seem to be failing. But to answer your question I saw you last night walking into your apartment building when I was out. And I see why you come here."

"Really. Now this, I have to hear." Faith said trying to look intrigued.

"But first I would like to ask my question since I have answered yours. Are you seeing anyone right now?"

Faith could tell that Armon was a very direct person by his question. Even though for her it seemed to have come from left field. But she thought about lying then answered truthfully. "No, I'm not seeing anyone at this moment."

"That is very good to know." Armon said taking a sip of his drink and smiling.

"That is very upfront question."

"Well I just want to make sure I should not be looking over my shoulder this evening for an angry boyfriend."

"Should I be looking over my shoulder for an angry wife, girlfriend or both?"

"Not at all. I am very much single and unattached. You know Faith I cancel plans of returning home just to see you again. Do you know why?" he asked in that low seductive voice.

"I have no idea. Considering the fact that you don't even know me. I'm just a person you met in a bar on a Friday night."

"You are a person I met in a bar that I want to get to know all about. I was very tempted to following you after you left last night. I have never wanted to follow a woman and the fact that I wanted to follow you...Well let's just say you intrigued me. And since I did not act on following you fate made it so that I would be talking to a friend outside when you went into her building."

Faith looked at Armon as he talked and she was lost at the intense look in his eyes. And the same look that Terrrell had yesterday. The look on Armon's face sent tingles through Faith that Terrell's looks didn't. "So you believe in fate?"

"I didn't until last night when I saw you," he responded. "Do you?"

"No." Faith said flatly. If Faith believed in fate, she would say that fate has been laughing at her for some time now.

"Faith, I would really like to get to know more about you. Starting tonight."

"Did you consider if I wanted to know more about you? Do you think you intrigued me as I have you?"

"I do. And that is why you came tonight. Am I right?" Armon look was now one of arrogance.

"But I could leave right now." Faith knew she could be just as arrogant.

"Well, if you did I would have to follow you tonight. So why say things that we both know you will not do."

"I know about you. So I guess I will be going." Faith then took one last sip from her glass and stood. "And we both know you will not follow me. Good-bye."

Just as Faith stepped away from the table, he grabbed her by her hand. "Don't you mean good night?"

"No."

"You should. Because we will be seeing each other again. Good-night, Faith." With that, he kissed her hand and smiled.

Faith simply smiled and walked away. Thinking it wouldn't be too bad to see him again, but as arrogant as he was, she would never admit it to him.

Faith was at home five minutes before her phone rang, showing a number she did not recognize but she answered it anyway. "Hello."

"Now that you have shown me that you are as stubborn as me, let's call a truce to no more games," Armon said.

It was him. How did he get my phone number? She thought.

"I can tell by your silence that you want to know how I got your cellphone number. Well, I told you I am a very resourceful man."

"Don't you mean a very rich man who can't take no for an answer?"

"No. Do you mean you are saying no before I have even asked you a question. So sure of yourself, are you?"

Now the smugness was coming through the phone. And she could just see the smirk on his face through the phone. "What do you want?"

"I would only like to have lunch with you tomorrow. Just lunch and if you still don't want to know as much about me as I want to know about you I will be on the next flight back to Florida before six."

"What time?"

"How's one?"

"Good."

"Very well. And again good-night Faith."

"Yeah." Faith said then tapped the phone ending the call. Looking at the phone Faith could not help what came out her mouth. "What the hell just happened? Damn, he's good."

Her phone rang again in her hand, but instead of looking at the caller id assuming it was Armon calling back she just answered. "Hello."

"Faith, please don't hang up." It was Malcolm. And she had had such a good day and it seemed like it was about to turn bad just that quick. Just by hearing his voice seemed to change her mood. But it was always like that when she heard his voice. The difference, then to now was that she can't stand the sound of his voice. The voice she at one time couldn't wait to hear. But right then she did the only thing she could do and that was to hang up.

Chapter 4

It was early Sunday by the time Faith got to sleep. Even though she had become accustom to staying up late because of all that was on her mind about Malcolm, she would have loved to have gotten more sleep. But this time she only gave Malcolm a little bit of her thoughts and that was only after she was able to relax after hearing his voice. After that, she rummaged through her closet trying to find something to wear for her Sunday lunch with Armon. Not sure of what to wear because she had no idea where they would be going. By the time she decided on a pair of Capri pants, shirt and very low heeled sandals, she had thrown so many clothes all over her bed and ended up falling asleep on her couch thinking of a man she thought was very arrogant and gorgeous.

Just as Faith came out of the shower, her phone began ringing. She looked at the caller id and saw it was Rachel. "Yes, mother dear."

"Wire hangers." Rachel yelled

Laughing at the friend because she knew Rachel was always a little crazier on Sundays for some reason. "You are insane. I knew we should have never watched that movie."

"It is one of my favorites. And you love it too. So what shall it be tonight? Do want me to come over or are you coming over here?"

"Oh, hell Rach, I forgot. Well, I got tricked." How could I have forgotten "girls old movie night" that they have every other Sunday. But that Armon was too slick and could have made me forget anything.

"What do you mean tricked? Did you talk to Malcolm?"

"Hell, no! It was Armon Carter."

"I'm coming over and you have to spill the goods on that man."

"No, don't. I'm having lunch with him at one and will tell you everything after that."

"You have a date?" Rachel said. Faith could tell she was smiling.

"You know I don't have time to deal with you right now, because I know where this conversation is headed."

"Oh. So you ditch me for some drop dead gorgeous millionaire and won't even give me a bite. Really? Faith, are you sure you didn't sleep with him?"

"Rach, get your head out of the bedroom. He asked me out to lunch and I said yes. End of story. Now I have to go and I promise to give you every little boring detail."

"Ok, Faith but you better not leave a single detail out. Have fun."

"Maybe. Bye."

"Bye."

Once Faith was finished talking to Rachel she went back into the bathroom and pulled out her makeup trying to figure out which colors could go best with her clothes, her phone rang again. When she saw it was Malcolm's number, she sent it to voice mail. She knew that at some point he would either stop calling or she would have to speak to him. Maybe in December that way she would not take the horrible year into the next. But now all she wanted to do was get ready for her date with Armon.

After several shoe changes Faith decided on a pair of beige sandals and was finally ready with no time to rest, there was call from the front desk that Armon was downstairs. It still shocked her that he had found out where she lived. Even though how he found out was by chance.

When the elevators door opened Armon was standing just about six feet in front of it. Leaving enough room for Faith to walk out and everyone else had just enough room to walk around them. "Well, hello," Faith said stepping out of the elevator.

"You look very nice," Armon said.

"Thank you. You look nice also." The man looked more than nice and he knew it. He had a pair of black jeans that were loose just enough to show his shape and a casual black button down with the sleeve rolled up. The man was simply mouth-watering good looking and Faith's mouth was very wet.

"I have a car just outside waiting on us. Have you eaten lunch yet?"

"No. Not really I woke up late, so I just had a snack."

"Great. Shall we?"

"We shall." As Faith took his arm, they walked out to the waiting limo that was at the curb. "For me?"

"Of course, how else am I supposed to look at you if I am driving?" And they step into the car as he smiled holding her hand.

Once they were seated and the car pulled out into traffic, Faith could feel his eyes watching her. "Did anyone ever tell you that it is impolite to stare?"

"Did you bring your lipstick with you?"

"What?" Faith asked turning to face him. He kissed her. Pressing his lips lightly covering hers and then pulled back. Faith was speechless from his kiss.

"I have seen you twice and I have wanted to know if your lips were as soft as they looked." Armon said knowing Faith was not as shocked as she looked because he could tell by the way she responded to his kiss that she wanted it also. And when she still didn't speak he knew he was right about her. "It looks like I didn't smear your lipstick, this time."

"You take your own liberties?" Faith said finally finding her voice.

"You knew I was going to kiss you today just not when. So I simply put your mind at ease so that we could enjoy our afternoon."

"It is customary to kiss a girl at the end of the date, if she wants to be kissed."

"Neither one of us is sixteen. So why wait until the end for just a kiss? We could do other things at the end." He looked at her with lust in his eyes and leaned over, but this time Faith leaned back because she could see he was going in for another kiss and was not ready for what may happen this time since the first had left her speechless.

Now Faith was feeling that funny tingle she felt the first time she looked into his eyes at the bar. The feeling of wanting him to do more than kiss her but knowing they should not. "You never answered my question. Remember your little evasion game does not work on me." Faith had to change the subject because his look of lust was still in his eyes and she did not want to give into him in the back of a limo.

"What question would that be?"

"The one about liberties."

"Only when it is something I want. I take all the liberties I can and it seems that you enjoyed me taking liberties just now." He answered her with that smugness in his tone from last night over the phone but seeing his face this way made him very attractive. Faith could feel the pull to Armon but what woman wouldn't. And that kiss was now on her mind.

"Where are we going for lunch?" Faith was able to get out after she snapped herself back to reality.

"Why would you want to think about lunch when we can discuss breakfast in the morning?" He was easing closer to her so she could not move. It was like she had been glued to the seat. Every breath she took in a little more of him. The man smelled great almost like a drug, making it difficult to think.

"Are you getting ahead of yourself? I only came out with you today so you could stop stalking me. And believe me when I say that breakfast with you is not even a thought." Faith said final able to get some control over her thoughts and body. But it was too late and Armon's arms wrapped around her and his lips were pressed lightly to hers before she could exhale a breath.

"You know I want you, and I just need you to say you want me." Armon said with his mouth still on Faith's and when she took another breath his tongue was in her mouth lightly stroking hers. While one hand was caressing her back, going up and down her spine and the other on the nape of neck holding her head to him.

Finally, having the strength to push him away Faith took several deep breaths. "Armon, whatever it is that you had on your mind for today is not going to happen with me."

As Armon looked over Faith's features and in her eyes the look he thought was there was gone. It was replaced by the look of seriousness. "Please accept my apology," he said slowly, moving back over to his seat as they rode in silence.

"I am at a lost. I have never been rejected before. So either you are not into men or there is someone else." As he spoke she turned her head towards him but he never even looked at her. Armon's reflection on the window was one of puzzlement.

"Well, neither apply to me." Was Faith's only response and they continued with the silence until the car came to a stop outside of the aquarium.

Breaking the silence Armon said, "I thought this would be nice for a first date to get to know each other. We could walk and talk without the Georgia heat." The puzzled look was still on his face as he finally turned to Faith.

"This was a great idea. I have wanted to come for some time, but have always been too busy."

Not saying a word Armon glided out of the car and extended his hand to help Faith out of the car. As she touched his hand that tingling feeling raced through her again and she stopped moving to look up at Armon. She could tell he felt it also because of the look in Armon's eyes were intense and she could tell what his thoughts were at that moment. "Do you really want to get out of the car?" he asked. Faith found herself shaking her head. "Lincoln, we're not going to do the aquarium today," he said to the driver. He then climbed back into the car as Faith slide back over on the seat.

"I do have my lipstick in my purse," Faith whispered.

"I don't think you will be needing that at all," he said then he seized her lips and locked them to his. Her hands were gripping his arms while giving in to the heat of the moment, getting lost as their tongues danced as they moved over each other. Faith was pulling on him to get him closer to her so she could feel more of him.

His hands moved from her face and slid down her arms to her back while deepening her kiss as if he could consume her through the kiss. The feel of her body next to him was pushing him closer to the edge of doing more. Armon broke the kiss from her lip to trail more kisses around her neck speaking between each. "You. Have. No. Idea. How. Much. I. Want. You."

Faith throw her head back and closed her eyes, letting the pleasure move over her body as it swayed from the motion of the car. She was lost in the pleasure of his fingers kneading her back and the words he whispered along her neck. Enjoying the way his hand rubbed lightly across her chest, testing to see if she would stop him. But she couldn't stop him and didn't want to stop him, she wanted those hands of his all over her body at once. Then she felt him pull away again from her. She opened her eyes quickly to see him pushing a button in the console. "Lincoln, drive east until I say other wise," he said not waiting on a response and began kissing her lips again.

Faith was moaning in the kiss as her fingers found the buttons on his shirt and started to undo them one by one, pulling the tail of shirt out of his pants to reach those buttons at the bottom. With the shirt opened fully she put her hands on his chest felling his muscles tighten and relax with her touch was making her hotter than she could ever remember. He was rubbing harder across her chest squeezing and pinching her nipples lightly enough to make her moan for more. Armon started trailing kisses down her neck again to her chest nibbling on her nipples through her shirt and it shot a spark through her body wanting more and needing more.

Armon could tell Faith wanted him by the way her body was reacting to everything he did. He was trying hard to control himself, so he could enjoy Faith's movements and moans to his touches and the feel of her hands on his body. He knew he was not going to last to much longer because his cock was throbbing and getting harder by each passing second. But he couldn't get enough of hearing her moans and feeling her hands rubbing over his body, as she would scratch every so lightly on his chest and back.

He wanted her nails hard on his skin as if she was clawing for life while she pulled him closer to her. "Don't do that. Not just yet," he said, taking her hands in his moving them away from his belt. He needed to stay dressed to keep some control over himself. He had wanted to do a million things to her body from the first time he saw her walk into the bar in that black dress. But the way Faith was moaning and now begging was making him slip on his control. To hear her say in that lusty voice, "Oh, Armon, please, more" was making him suck on her chest harder through her shirt as her hands laid on his head. When Armon realized he was moaning he knew it was only a matter of time before he lost control. His erection felt like it was about to push through his pants wanting to feel the inside of her wet core.

Faith was mindless because the pleasure was too much for her senses. The sucking, rubbing pinching and kissing was driving her insane with need making her squirm and arch her body into him. She tightens her hands around his head pulling him up from her chest to kiss him again on his lips moving down his neck and his ears. When she got to his ears as she felt him pinch and squeeze on her chest harder. She knew he was as lost as she was and not surprised at all by his reaction.

When Faith licked his ear Armon knew at that second he had lost all control. He pulled her down so that she was laying across the back seat pushing her shirt up to unbutton her pants while her fingers made quick work of undoing his pants. She brushed up against his rock hard erection making him moan. He tossed her pants to the other side of the car and removed her shirt quicker tossing it to join the pants and then stopped look at her in only her bra and panties.

"Is something wrong?" she asked.

"No. It's just I knew your body was gorgeous the first night I saw you. But I never expected it to be perfect," Armon said, tracing his finger down her stomach to her small blue bow at the top of her panties. He was slowing down trying to gain a little control over himself as he moved down to the center of her core where his throbbing erection wanted to be. And the closer he got the more he throbbed. Until he touched her panties right at her entrance and she moaned making him almost lose his mind. "Damn, you are so wet. I can't take it anymore." He pulled down her panties and discarded them with the rest of their clothing. Then laid on top of her, and began kissing her deeply. They got hotter as they each let their hands roam over each other body.

"Armon, now please," Faith said through the kiss. She never had a man make her feel like this just from a kiss, so needy and hot. Faith knew she was attracted to Armon but this was something totally different like she was on a drug and he was it. She didn't want him to stop, ever. "Armon, please."

With Faith begging under him Armon was loving the feel of her more and more as she making him feel lost until this point with her. He knew he had to have her because of the intense feeling knew as having he had never felt before for anyone. The tingle from earlier when he had touched her hand was like nothing he had ever known from any woman. The way she was looking at him was making him feel things he never allowed himself to feel for another person. And she tasted like candy that just got sweeter the longer you sucked and he had no plans on stopping. "Say you want me."

"I want you, Armon. Now." And on her last word his pushed into her at the same time capturing her moan with a kiss as he moved back and forth.

"Shit!" he said, stopping instantly.

"What is it?" Faith asked, getting alarmed.

"I didn't put on a condom. I am so sorry. I promise I am clean, but that is no excuse for my carelessness. It will just take a moment." He went to move but Faith stopped him.

"Armon, we are both adults. And I am clean and on the pill," Faith said, pulling Armon back down for another kiss. She just did not want him to move and feeling of him bare inside of her was so good. She had never done this with anyone before, and this just felt right and okay. And when he started to move again inside her, she got lost again and could only think about what was going on at that second. Thinking of only him and her as their bodies moved together fitting like a glove. The longer he moved inside of her, she no longer felt the motion of the car but the motion of Armon.

"I don't know how much longer I can take this. You are making me insane as you squeeze around me, Faith. Say you feel the same way. Say you don't want this to end."

"I don't want, this is to end," she responded as he pushed even harder in a quick rhythm over and over until she was screaming his name. "Armon."

"Yes. Yes," he said as she climaxed around him, squeezing and pulling him into her. The sensation was so strong that he lost control and exploded with her saying her name as if it was a prayer, "Faith." Then he kissed her again as they laid there on the back seat out of breath and very relaxed as they headed east.

Chapter 5

As Armon held Faith in the back seat of the limo. The smell of their encounter lingered in the air, the longer he held her he could only notice the scent of her. Which was like the sweet smile of vanilla and sugar. He felt as if he never wanted to let her go and that he needed her to function, but wondered if she was feeling the same or anything at all. He had never been on this side of the feeling line when it came to women.

"Now it is time for me to know everything about you," Armon said.

"Really? I thought you were a resourceful man. Let's see, you found out where I live and even my cell phone number. So why don't you tell me what you know about me," Faith said turning in his arms to face him.

"You seem to be avoiding my question, Faith," he smiled.

"There's not really much to tell you. You know where I live, what I do for a living and I'm pretty sure my birthday and social security number."

"True, but tell me what I don't know. Like what's your favorite color? You know stuff like that."

"My favorite color is blue. I love old movies and my best friend is Rachel. I love pasta and reading. How's that?" she said with a smurky kind of smile.

"That will work for starters," he smiled back running a finger down her cheek.

"What do you mean for starters?" she asked. She did not think that she would be seeing him after today, even though she wasn't sure if she wanted to see him again. They had great sex in the back of a limo, but that was it. If he wanted more she was not sure if she was ready to give it.

Watching her smile fade, Armon knew he had to be very cautious with his answer. He could tell she was putting her guard up, but didn't know why after what they had just shared. He had never made love with a woman without a condom and he was not even panicky about it. It felt great truly feeling the wetness of this woman. "Are you saying you don't want to see me again?"

"I assumed I wouldn't be. After all, you do live in Florida and I live here. I don't do long distance relationships," Faith said looking seriously.

"Is that the only reason? Or is It me?" he asked loosen his hold on her. It was something about the look on her face that was unsettling.

"It's not you."

"Then what is it?" Armon asked as he noticed the expression on her face was changing to sadness. "Look, I just loved what happened between us and I can tell you did too. I just figured you would want to explore what this is between us."

"I will admit that there is something, but..."

"There is no but," he said, cutting her off. "Let's start over. Hello, I'm Armon Carter," he said, extending his hand to her.

"I hardly see this as necessary considering what just happened."

"It is. Trust me." She hesitated, but took his and smiled. "And your name?" he asked.

"I'm Faith Moore and it is nice to meet you."

"Would you like some lunch?" he asked smiling.

"That would be great. I seem to have worked up an appetite," she smiled with a little laugh.

*****

"What happed to just lunch?" Do you know what time it is?" Rachel shouted.

"Yes, and it is 1:14am and I have to go to work in about six hours. But I promised you that I would give you every detail when I got home." And by every, Faith meant some.

"I know, but I expected you to call me the evening not at one in the morning."

"Well, you can go back to sleep and we cannot talk about all the juicy details then," Faith said, smiling because she knew Rachel would not let her hang up.

"Ok, now I'm awake."

"Well, we drove to South Carolina for a very late lunch and talked all the way there and back. Then he brought me back home. The end. Good night."

"Bullshit! You did not just wake me up to tell me that you had lunch, the end."

"Maybe I did, Rach."

"You are such a liar. So tell me or I will come over this minute and keep you up all night."

"Ok. Ok. His kisses are like heaven. I mean he makes love with his month and he wants to see me again. There, are you happy?"

"Wait. You are going to see him again?" Rachel asked.

"Yes."

"Are you sure you're ready?"

Hesitating Faith answered, "Yes. Why wouldn't I be?"

"What are you going to do about Malcolm?"

"Absolutely nothing. We are done and he is not my concern any longer," Faith said with a sternness in her voice and Rachel knew she was done with talking about that particular subject.

"I will leave that subject alone. I have one question and then you can hang up and get some sleep. Is he gay?" Rachel asked, laughing into the phone.

"Good night, Rachel. And I don't think I heard him calling out a man's name while he was bouncing on top of me," Faith said smiling at her comment because Rachel had stopped laughing. Without another word Faith ended the call.

Chapter 6

As Faith was working through her morning, she received a dozen of roses right before lunch.

"Ms. Moore, these just arrived for you," Faith's assistant, Ebony said walking into her office with roses.

"Those are beautiful," Faith said taking the card out to read it. She knew they were from Armon before she even read the card. They looked just like the ones he had sent to her on Saturday. As she read the card, she started to blush at the words.

"Oh, and the man who delivered these is waiting outside."

"The delivery guy?" Faith asked, knowing Ebony meant Armon because no delivery guy would stick around after they made their delivery.

"No, he does not look anything like a delivery guy," Ebony said smiling. "He is gorgeous, tall and dressed to the nine."

With that she knew it was Armon. "Well, by all means send him in," Faith said, moving the flowers to the far side of the desk.

When Armon walked into the office Ebony closed the door behind him and he stood there looking like an executive sex stick. He was dressed in a black three piece suit that looked like it was tailor made. It draped his body to show just a hint of the muscles hidden underneath, but Faith knew what was under that expensive suit and just the thought was starting to tickle her skin.

"I hope you didn't mind me stopping by, to see you. But I have not been able to get my mind off of you. It is very hard trying to work when you're holding a pair of panties in your hand. Breaks ones concentration," Armon said with a lust filled voice.

"Did you come here to return them to their owner?"

"Why would I do a thing like that?"

"Well, what is the reason for your visit?" Faith asked taking her seat.

"You know the way look at me is making me want to change my reason. But seeing that you are at work I guess my reason will be to take you to lunch."

"No limos."

"If that is what you wish. But I do recommend them."

"There's this Chinese place not far," Faith suggested.

"I hope you don't want to walk because it is very hot out there," he smiled.

"Ok, we can take your limo. But you stay on one side of the car. Deal?" Faith said in her business tone.

Armon just looked at Faith sitting behind her desk and the sight was making him hard. He was realizing that Faith was doing things to him that no other woman had been able to do. The way she was looking at him right now wanting to deal with him was laughable. He made millions doing deals. She had no idea what was in store for her. "Deal," he said with his business smile because he just got to see another side of her that he liked. The business side.

Once they made it to Armon's waiting car, Faith noticed the same driver from Sunday holding the door open. "Did you request the same driver from yesterday?"

"No. Lincoln is my personal driver and bodyguard. He goes everywhere I go. Is there a problem?" he asked.

"No, not at all," Faith said hesitantly getting into the car.

"He couldn't hear anything that happened back here yesterday. The back is sound proof once the partition is closed. Ok."

"Ok," Faith forced out. She had not thought about him hearing anything until seeing him today.

"Now where are we going for the lunch?" he asked.

"Just two blocks on the corner, you can't miss it. The Magical Dragon."

Armon smiled and gave the direction to Lincoln and closed the partition between them. "Now, as per our agreement to stay on my side of the car," he started. "You must know this is my car and all sides are mine," he said with a wolfish smile.

Faith could only stare at his expression as it dawned on her what he was actually saying. Then she noticed as Armon began to slide closer to her. "You had this planned all along didn't you?"

"I am a business man that never makes a deal that I don't get the upper hand on. I already told you I have been thinking about you all day. What were you expecting?" he said, kissing along her neck from left to right.

"For one thing, I was not expecting to see you. Shouldn't you be on your way back to Florida?" she asked between his kissing and her rolling neck.

"I know you have some hesitation about being in a relationship right now," he said, pulling away from her, "and I wouldn't pry about why. I only want you to do as I am doing and go with it and stop trying to push me back to Florida so quickly."

As Faith watched Armon's face as he spoke, she noticed the lust that was there from the time he came into her office was gone. And the look now was almost saddening. "I've thought a lot about what happened yesterday and like I told you I can't do a long distance relationship."

"I'm here with you now, Faith. There's not much distance between us right now. I'm even at the hotel across from where you live."

"But there will be some distance when you go back to Florida. Armon, I will be honest with you. I do feel something in the air between us, but not all air is good for you."

Armon didn't say a word, but leaned back into Faith and covered her month with his for a long hot kiss that seemed to last forever. And when he finally pulled away there was a tap at the door. Faith hadn't noticed that the car had stopped. "Faith, the air in here is good, very good. Plus, I own my own business and I can work from anywhere that has computer access. I can stay here for as long as I want."

Faith looked at the man in front of her and realized what she had really done. She had sex with him only just as an effort to get over Malcolm which was wrong. Because he was being honest about how he was feeling about her, and she was trying to push him away because she was scared that she might feel the same way. He seemed perfect, so what was she really scared of. Smiling, she said, "No more sex in limousines."

He smiled back looking into her eyes. He could see he was getting to her. "I thought you enjoyed yesterday in the limousine. At least that's what it felt like."

"I did. But if we are going to give this between us a real try then we can't have sex every time I'm in the back of a limousine with you. I don't want a relationship that is nothing but sex. I want more other than being a booty call."

"I get it. You want a commitment of the soul, not just the body."

"Yes."

At that moment Faith could not have known how happy she had just made Armon. He wanted the same thing, but was afraid if he said it Sunday that would have freaked her out. She would have had him take her back to her condo before they made it to the aquarium. But knowing she wanted to have a committed relationship and would give them a try was icing on a cake. "Is kissing in limousines out?" he asked.

"Kissing in limousines is fine. Only kissing," she said, pushing him back against the seat kissing him. While her hands were busy unbuckling his belt and pants.

"Thought you said not sex?" he whispered in his sex filled voice.

"I did. But I also said, kissing was fine." She lowered herself to her knees in front of him and began to work Armon erection out of his underwear. "Now I am going to kiss you." And she began to kiss him starting at the tip of his erection and then down the sides which seemed to make him get harder with every kiss. She noticed that he was restraining himself from taking over and she wanted to do this to him. Not because she wanted to get over Malcolm but to let him know that she would get this thing between them a real try. And this was a very intimate thing for her to do.

"Faith, this was not the kissing I was talking about," he said half moaning.

"Well, I was. If you would like me to stop I will."

"Hell no," he answered. As Faith licked around the head of his erection before taking it into her mouth and sucked. Armon moaned and tapped on the window three times, but Faith never moved. Even though she felt the car moving she only sucked more working the base of him with her hand while the other was rubbing on his chest. She was in total control and it was great to feel Armon tighten inside her mouth as he moaned squeezing and rubbed her chest making her wet. She could tell he was about to cum because of how hard he was getting and the way he had started thrusting into her mouth and she was enjoying the moment being able to see him like this.

"Stop!" Armon yelled, pulling Faith up. "I will not cum in your mouth. I'm not into that. But I was unprepared last time, but this time I am not."

As he spoke Faith realized that the car was pulling into a parking garage. "Where are we?" she asked.

"At my hotel. I plan on finishing what you started here in my hotel room and all you have to take off your skirt so you will not be too, late returning from lunch."

Chapter 7

After Faith returned to work from one of her many afternoon lunches with Armon she was feeling really good considering the only thing she had eaten were some grapes and a few strawberries off of Armon. As the elevator opened and she stepped to the side while people exited, her mind was still on her lunch with Armon that she never heard someone calling her name. But just as the elevator was about to close, a man's hand stopped it and when it reopened, he stood there looking at Faith with despair in his face. Faith could only look in shock as Malcolm came into the elevator and the doors closed behind him.

Faith was not sure how to react or what to say to Malcolm since he had not called as much during the past couple of weeks, she had figured he had moved on. But to see him here and now was confusing her as to what he could possibly be here to say to her. Looking into his eyes, seeing hurt, she had never seen in his face in the years she had known him. Taking a breath, Faith asked, "What are you doing here, Malcolm?"

"I'm here to see you," he said as if she had somehow hurt him with that question.

"Well, what do you want?" Faith said with such hardness in her voice as if she was speaking to a stranger.

"What do you mean?" he paused. "I want you. I have always wanted you. I know I've messed up."

"Do you think?" Faith said just as the elevator came to a stop and the doors opened. She moved past Malcolm walking down the hall to her office as he rushed behind her. "Malcolm, I can't do this with you. We are done, so just leave."

"I can't. I have come back to Georgia every weekend for the past six months trying to talk to you and waiting on you to want to talk to me," He stopped and pulled Faith to him. "I just want to talk."

"Let go of me right now Malcolm," Faith said a little louder than she intended, but with the anger she wanted Malcolm to hear. She looked at him as he released her and stepped back watching his face change to almost childlike.

"I'm sorry, Faith. I just want us to talk and I want you to hear me out."

"Malcolm, what exactly is there for you to say? Really! What kind of excuse could you possibly have for having your dick in someone's mouth," Faith said, lowering her voice towards the end because as she said it the memory came back to her. The vision of seeing Malcolm enjoying having another man sucking on him seem to only make her madder.

He could only look into her face and see the hurt and pain that he last saw when she stood at the doorway of his bedroom in Florida. But he didn't want her to run away this time without being able to talk to her. "I love you."

"Bull shit!"

"How could you say that when you know I do. I know you are hurt and cutting me off is how you are dealing with me but I also know you. You know I did not..." he stopped trying to find the right words to say but they did not come.

"Malcolm, you got caught cheating on me. The end," Faith said, raising her hand. "Look, I have to get back to work, so please leave."

"I can't leave you now even if you are yelling at me. At least you are talking to me, looking at me and in the same room as me. You know I call your cell phone knowing you won't answer just to hear your voice on your voicemail. I'm walking around at work in a daze as a shell of myself because of what I have done to you and us."

"I really don't want to hear anything you have to say," Faith said in a more normal tone.

"So you don't want to talk about what you saw? Do you want to move past it and past me?"

"Yes!" The answer came so quickly out of her mouth, but it wasn't a surprise to Malcolm. He was surprised though by just hearing her say it. He had hoped that seeing him and hearing what he had to say would soften her towards him enough to think about what they had. "I'm sorry. I hurt the love of my life."

"Stop! Just stop saying that. If you loved me we would not be at this point right now. You know what I'm sorry about? I'm sorry that I loved you to the point that I let you hurt me the way you did." With the last word Faith turned away and walked past her assistant slamming her office door.

As Malcolm stood in the floor looking at the door that separated him from Faith he knew all he had to do was open it and she would start yelling at him again. But he really didn't want her to yell because it represented all that he had done and the hurt and anger she still felt.

"I wouldn't do that if I were you. She will call security," Ebony, the assistant, said. Looking up from the door Malcolm did not realize that he had walked the short distance to the door and was reaching for the door knob.

"Maybe I should just go then," Malcolm said, stepping away from the door and turning back down the hall. As he walked away, he realized one thing. That Faith still felt something for him because she was still hurting and he would just wait it out until that hurt turned around and she would feel happy again with him.

*****

As Faith sat at her desk trying to calm her nerves after seeing Malcolm again, she realized it had shaken her up more than she thought. She knew she was not ready to see him and didn't know if she ever would be because she still felt pain in her heart when it came to him. But she also knew that she was still feeling something for Malcolm that she wasn't sure she wanted to deal with now or ever.

"Miss. Faith, would you like me to get you something to drink?" Ebony asked from the doorway. Faith was too shaken to have heard her knock before she came in.

"Yes, please, a soda would do," Faith said just above a whisper for Ebony to hear.

When Ebony returned with Faith's soda she was a little more composed pushing her confrontation with Malcolm to the back of her mind. Faith was not going to let Malcolm ruin what had been a great afternoon. And the more she thought about her lunch with Armon the better she seemed to feel. Just the thought of Armon sent chills down her spine and brought a smile to her face.

"What are you smiling about?" Ebony asked, placing the soda on the desk. "You have the look you had when you left for lunch."

"Well, my lunch was good. Fruit is a very good meal for lunch."

"Good to hear, because there seems to be a problem with the new system upgrades."

"What problem?" Faith smile slowly faded because she could tell by the look on Ebony's face that what she was about to say would not be good. The new accounting program seemed to be finally working fine since all the bugs had been worked out.

"Well the upgrades to the physician coding is not working with the physician billing codes upgrade."

"That's not so bad. But you're still frowning. So what are the bad part about the upgrades?"

Taking a deep breath Ebony closed her eyes and said, "Malcolm's firm has been called in to help with the programming issues."

"What? Why?" Faith yelled.

"What I found out is that they brought Engage Innovation. It was a very hush, hush deal that had been in the works since last year."

"Shit, shit, shit! This cannot be happening," Faith said, putting her hands over her face and shaking her head.

"There is one more thing," Ebony added softly.

"Ebony, I don't think I can take one more thing."

"You will have a meeting with the team before they come here to work on site. Your meeting will be at the Innovations office in D.C."

"Now that is good," Faith said with a smile. "Because Malcolm is in Florida. So that is not a problem at all. When is my meeting in D.C?"

"In two weeks," Ebony answered.

"Good. Put it on my calendar and make my arrangements," Faith said dismissing Ebony. For a moment Faith thought she was going to have to see Malcolm everyday at work which really would not work well for her. Malcolm being at the hospital in her department having to work closely with her was absolutely not going to work with Armon dropping by for lunch. Or maybe it would be wise for Malcolm to see Armon. To see that she had moved on and that he should do the same because they were finished. But she did not want to discuss Malcolm with Armon. Malcolm was her past and she did not want to put him in her future because she was happy with Armon.

Chapter 8

"I'm here, so spill the beans on why I just had to come over here right after work." Rachel said walking into Faith door.

"Because, Malcolm came to the hospital today."

"What the hell! Why is he in Georgia on a weekday? Shouldn't he be working?"

"Don't know, don't care and I didn't ask. But that's not the worst thing," Faith said, clutching her sofa pillow tightly as she sat down. "His firm will be doing some on-site IT support at the hospital for the new accounting software upgrades."

"Why is that? Faith I want to know everything and not some short version were you leave out some of the details," Rachel said in a motherly tone taking a seat in the chair across from Faith.

As Faith told Rachel everything that had happened when Malcolm visited and what she found out that afternoon about his firm, she watched as Rachels facial expression never changed. Rachel just sat there listening to every word. "And that's it in a nutshell," Faith said.

"Well, that's something."

"Don't you dare give me 'that's something'. What am I going to do?" Faith said almost at a yell.

"Tell you what to do? Are you serious?"

"Yes, Rach. I want you to tell me what to do."

"Look, Faith. I know you loved Malcolm and I have been trying not to say to much on that particular emotion," Rachel paused taking a deep breath before she continued. "Do you still love him? And think about your answer before you say it."

"I don't need to think about it. I hate him."

"You're mad at him. Really mad. But don't confuse that as hate."

"I'm not confused. I'm mad at him and I hate him."

"Who are you trying to convince me or yourself?"

"Are we really having this conversation," Faith said as she tossed the pillow back to the sofa.

"You wanted this conversation that's why I'm here. Look, what he did was so...Well, it was bad. Men do stupid things that hurt the people who love them and the ones they love."

"Rach, I can't forgive him."

"I'm not saying you should. Just don't let your confusion have you doing something you will regret later. Think about how you feel about Malcolm."

"You keep using that word and I'm not confused."

"Why do you believe that you are not confused?"

"Because I think I'm falling in love with Armon." The words seemed to flow out of Faith so easily they shocked her.

"I can see why you would think you're not confused. That man could make any woman forget her own name."

"What do you mean, think?"

"It was your word, not mine. You 'think' you can't love Malcolm because you think you love Armon. The fact is that you can love two people at the same time. And I 'think' you do."

Faith had nothing to say at that moment. She just let the words soak in about her love for Armon. She knew what she felt for Armon was not like what she felt for Malcolm in the past. It made her wonder if she really did love Malcolm because she was sure it was love she was feeing for Armon.

"What are you thinking, Faith? I see the little wheels on the bus turning and I bet it has something to do with that fine millionaire."

As Faith stood and walked over to her window looking out across to the hotel where Armon was staying she smiled. The smile seemed to change her mood because she was thinking about only Armon. She realized that whenever she thought about Armon she smiled.

"Rach, I haven't told Armon how I feel about him because I'm afraid he might hurt me. Right now I don't want to take that chance."

"You can't compare every man to Malcolm. You can't expect every man to hurt you because some of them you will hurt. I like Armon, he seems really nice and he's been really good to you these past weeks. I liked Malcolm before and maybe still do, but I love you and want you to be happy," Rachel said walking up beside Faith. "And looking at you now it seems that what makes you happy is inside that hotel."

Chapter 9

The weekend before Faith was to leave for her trip to D.C. Armon planned a trip for them to take because she had been acting strange. That evening when he had picked her up for dinner, she told him about her trip she seemed different. Her smiles at times looked to be forced and her attention was not on their date. He had assumed Faith's mood had something to do with her trip but could not think of why a business trip about system upgrading issues would bother anyone some much. He had incurred problems like that before and it was not a big issue. He had decided to let it go for that evening trying not to put too much thought into it.

As Armon sat in the car waiting on Faith, his mind began to wonder back to what had caused such a change in her mood lately. It wasn't just towards him, but also in the way she spoke to everyone and after that he realized it wasn't just a bad day at the office. Even their afternoon rendezvous were not the same and when they made love a week ago, he could tell it was something else by the way her body moved and even how she hesitated in calling out his name during her climax. He had known it wasn't him and wanted to know without pushing hoping she would confide in him since they had promised to give their relationship a try. But it seemed that Faith was keeping a secret that she did not feel comfortable enough to share with him.

Secrets did not sit well with Armon and he could not allow her to keep them from him when he had fallen in love with her. The way he felt just seeing her face or hearing her voice over the phone made him realize that he would do anything to make and keep her happy and with him forever. Thinking about her even now was making him aroused to a point he had never been just thinking about a woman. But this woman, Faith, he wanted above any before and that was the reason he had to get her to open up to him.

Throughout the day Faith kept herself busy so she could not think about why Armon had cancelled their lunch date and what surprise he had in store for her. The man was getting under her skin to a point that it was making her very cautious in the relationship. Armon consumed most of her thoughts day and night and the feelings she was having for him were starting to worry and scare her more with each passing day they were together. The train wreck of a relationship with Malcolm seemed to have changed her more than what she had thought. But she was trying with Armon to not treat him badly or take out the anger she still harbored towards Malcolm on to Armon.

As the day finally came to an end Faith walked towards Armon's waiting car and that fluttering feeling in her stomach that she felt when she thought of or saw him returned stronger than ever. Her excitement to see him seemed to be growing with every step she made getting closer to the car and she could feel her heart as it was beating faster when the car door opened and Armon stepped out and started towards her.

Watching Faith come out of the building walking towards his car was making his erection harder than he could remember from just looking at a woman walk. But this woman was his woman and she was coming straight to him with a lusting look in her eyes that was all for him. Not being able to wait for her to get to him,, he opened the back door of the car and walked to her closing the distance quickly. When he stood in front of her he couldn't help the strong need to kiss and hold her. Wrapping her in his arms as he covered her lips with his in a deep kiss, hoping to convey how much he had missed her and that she could trust him not to hurt her.

As they stood outside the car locked in an embrace, kissing for their life Faith felt herself relaxing so much she thought she was melting into him. She returned Armon's kiss with all she felt moving against his tongue in a smooth dance that made both of them moan in response to the other.. She wanted to touch him, but she still held her briefcase and Armon had her wrapped in his arms so tightly. But just when Faith was about to drop her things Armon slowly broke their kiss.

Looking into Faith's eyes Armon knew she was feeling what he was feeling without having to say a word. Their kiss spoke words that their mouths could not. Armon knew the words he wanted to say to Faith but needed to make sure she was ready to hear them and felt the same about him. "I think we need to get you into the car," he finally said smiling.

"I think you are right," she said as she stepped toward the car to get inside. Armon took her briefcase that came very close to being dropped on the ground just moments ago and handed it to Lincoln to be put in the trunk. And with his other hand helped Faith into the car and the feel of electricity that he also felt when he touched her was still there.

"How was your day?" Armon asked, closing the car door.

"It was good. How was yours?"

"Horrible," he paused, looking at Faith. "I missed you and couldn't wait to see you. You make me lose focus when I am trying to do business."

Smiling, Faith said, "Very good, then, because I have not been able to stay focused either." The way Armon had said he missed her made her feel like no other man had before. Not even Malcolm when he would say those words to her over the phone. Now, this feeling she got from Armon was so strong that it was controlling her and she leaped over to Armon kissing him as if he was her lifeline. He returned the kiss as if she was his and let her hands find the buttons of his shirt to unbutton the first one just as Armon pulled her hands away and broke the kiss yet again. "What's wrong?" Faith could see something different in his eyes now that wasn't there when she first saw him when he got into the car. And the way he held her hands now was not with passion as he held her kissing in the parking lot.

"Faith, we need to talk," he said in a business tone she had heard him use on the phone before with his business calls. But now he was using it on Faith.

Easing away to sit back beside him, her eyes never left his face as she watched his face change yet again but only slightly to a more business manner. This most definitely was not the man that gave her a bear-hug and kiss moments ago. Now, this was boardroom serious, Armon. "About what?"

"About us."

"Us?" she said in confusion.

"You say it like it is a dirty word," he said, speaking as if she was one of his employees.

"I don't understand what just happened. You jump out of the car and kiss me. Now this. What's going on?"

"Do you trust me?" he asked, arching his brow. He knew the question would throw her because he could tell she had trusting issues when it came to him.

"What?"

"Do you trust me? It is a very simple question."

"What difference does it make if I trust you or not?"

"What difference does it make? We've made love twice without protection. I would hope you trust me not to give you some disease. I trust you not to get pregnant," Armon said as his voice began to rise.

"Made love." Faith repeated the words as if they were the only things he had said. Making love to her meant that you had strong feeling for the other person and that they connected on a very deep emotional level. Faith was not sure if what she felt was an emotional connection or if she was using him to escape her feeling for Malcolm.

"Yes. You and I made love. What was it to you? Was it just fucking?" As he looked at Faith he noticed that she seemed to be contemplating how she wanted to give her answer. "I can tell by your look that what we shared was just a fucking to you."

"No."

"Look, Faith, I don't consider what we have shared that way. Women I do that with I would never think about being in a relationship with. And I would have never set up temporary housing in a hotel to be with them while I look for a house in the same city just to be near them."

"I never gave what we shared that much thought."

"Really?" Armon said with a chuckle. Maybe he had misread everything about this relationship and Faith. Hoping she felt what he was feeling about her even if in a small amount. But he was not prepared for this or her reaction.

"You're twisting what I mean."

"Faith, how do you feel about me?" he asked because he just had to know. He couldn't take not knowing how she truly felt about him.

"Why are you asking me all these questions?"

"Does it really matter the reason? They are not hard questions."

"Armon, I don't know if I can answer your questions."

"Can't or won't, Faith?"

Looking into Armon's eyes, she felt like she was the worst person alive. The hurt she saw in his eyes was enough to make her bleed. His business face had fallen away to reveal a very hurt Armon. How could she have done this to him when he only wanted to know how she felt about him. But she really couldn't answer him because she was still trying to figure it out herself.

Reaching her hand up to touch his cheek, she took a deep breath to steady her nerves because she was so afraid of the words she was about to say. "Armon, I do feel something for you. It's just that I need some time to sort it all out."

"Do you trust me? Because if you do, you don't need any more time to sort out anything."

"It's complicated."

"Tell me what's so complicated about telling me how you really feel about me?"

As she looked into Armon eyes, hoping he could see what she could not get her mouth to say. To tell him about Malcolm and that she had been wondering if she still had feeling for him and if they were the same she felt for Armon.

"Faith," he said, taking her hand as he brought it to his lip to kiss it lightly across the back. He continued up her arm slowly getting his thoughts together on what he wanted to say to her. When he reached her neck, his kisses were accompanied by licks from right to left. "Faith, I don't want to scare you away and I don't want you to feel obligated to say something you don't feel."

"Armon, I think I love you," Faith whispered just barely enough for Armon to hear. She knew he heard because the kissing stopped as he pulled away from her and she saw him smile.

"I know I love you, Faith. I don't need to think about it or sort it out."

"But, Armon..."

"No, let me finish," he said, cutting her off. "I've never been in love with anyone before you. At first when I saw you in the bar something came over me. When we made love the first time I knew that I wanted you by my side forever. And the more time we spend together the more I have fallen for you. I've been waiting on you to say how you feel because when I tell you how much I have missed you I see the way you put a wall up hiding your feeling and I want to know why. I want us to be a little more than what you want. I want to give you all of me and in return I want you to give me all of you.

"I don't think I can, Armon. I'm sorry," Faith said, shaking her head as Armon kissed her hands. "I don't want to hurt you, it's just hard."

"Tell me why you find it so hard to love me? Is it me?"

"No! Not at all. It's me and my past," she said the last lowering her voice more at the end. Because now she could see that Rachel had said about her hurt a man. But she didn't want to hurt this man.

"I see. So some asshole hurt you and you don't want to love anyone else. Is that right?"

"That's..." Faith paused because she didn't know how to finish the sentence. This conversation was going where she was afraid to go and was sure she was not ready. There had been only two people she had discussed her breakup with Malcolm with. It still hurt to talk about and she was still not sure how she felt.

"I am not that man, Faith. Whatever he did, I can promise you that I will not because you mean a great deal to me. And I can say that you did not mean that to him because you are here with me now."

"I know you are not him and I don't want you to be. I just don't want to talk about him."

As Armon looked over Faith's face, he could tell that she was still emotionally tied to the man that hurt her. And he did not like it one bit. He wanted to be the only one she was emotionally tied to. "Faith, I'm going to ask you a question the same question as before, but with one difference that is very important to both of us. You may not realize it, but it is. Do you trust me not to hurt you?"

Faith listened to the words Armon was saying and trying not to over think them too much. Rachel had been telling her to just go with the flow and relax when it came down to Armon. And right now she just wanted to relax in Armon's arms only his. The feeling was so strong that she couldn't stop to think about the words that rushed out of her mouth. "I do love and trust you not to hurt me, ever."

Armon could only smile at her words, but at that same time shocked because a moment earlier she wasn't sure. "Are you sure or just saying what you think I want to hear?"

"I'm saying it because it is how I feel. Part of me knew you would not hurt me and I guess the other part just needed to hear you say how you felt also."

Without a warning, he pulled her to him, his mouth covered her lips consuming everything he could with that kiss. His lust for her had taken over. He had been restraining himself the entire time because he felt things needed to be said before they went any further. As he pulled away from the kiss just a little as their lips still touching lightly, he said, "This is just the beginning, Faith."

Chapter 10

Faith found Armon words exciting. Everything he seemed to do excited her more than she thought. The way he was kissing her down her neck, sliding her blazer down her arms as she felt her body follow his every gesture made her moan as he kissed down the front of her shirt. The feeling of his lips through her clothing was making her squirm for more. She could hear him moaning also and feel the vibrations when he spoke as they sent chills straight to her chest. Her nipples hardened against her bra as he massaged them one at a time while he kissed around the others. He moved from left to right making the sensation move through her body along with the motion of the car intensifying the feeling.

"Faith, you're so beautiful. I can't stop thinking about you day and night. Today not seeing you was so damn hard. I promised myself that we wouldn't make love in this car today, but when I kiss you, it's so hard not wanting to do more. It's like your body is calling and pulling me to you.

"Oh, Armon it is calling to you."

Her words were like a trigger to him and he needed to be inside her. To feel her body beneath his. He made quick work of removing both of their clothes as they kissed deeply and he could hear what she was saying to him through her kiss. That she did love him and would give all she had to him.

"Armon, I want you," Faith said.

Armon positioned himself at her entrance and he could tell how badly she wanted him by how wet and swollen she was. As he pushed inside her slowly wanted her to feel every inch of him and how hard she made him. But she wrapped her legs tightly around his waist, pulling him to push harder into her.

"I must go slow my love. I need you to feel how important you are to me," he said.

"I know, Armon. I know," she whispered as she felt him slide deeper into her. She forced her legs to loosen the hold she had on him so she wouldn't pull him into her until he was ready. She understood why he wanted to go slowly this time. So he could feel their connection they have had since their confession of love. But she felt it the moment the crown of his erection pushed against her. This man was driving her over the edge and he hadn't even pushed all the way inside her. The slowness made her sensitive all over as he massaged her chest, kneading and squeezing. The way his lips touched hers and trailed down her neck was making the fight to pull him even harder. She had never felt like this before with any other man.

Armon could tell Faith was struggling not to pull him into her and he was having the same struggle. He wanted her as badly as she wanted him and every time he slid more inside the warmth and wetness of her it sent chills up his spine and the urge to push harder. He could tell this was right, she was the right woman for him. He didn't have to search any longer. Their bodies just fit together so perfectly. And with that last thought he pushed all the way inside her. "We belong together. Can't you feel it?" he said as he moved back and forth inside. The feel of her body, squeezing around his erection harder each time drove him into a rhythm.

Faith lost control the moment she felt all of Armon inside and yelled out his name. The way he was moving as he started to speak. To hear him say they belonged made her move against his body as he drove into her, she relaxed and when he pulled back she pushed forward. She didn't want him to slide out even a little even to push back in. She wanted him inside of her as much as possible. Faith wanted to own and consume him just as he did her.

This was right. Their bodies and souls belonged together like missing parts to a puzzle. She had never felt this complete before Armon. He was what she needed, all that she needed. "Yes," she yelled. "We belong together, forever." She wasn't sure if 'forever' was what he wanted to hear, but it was how she felt at that moment and would probably feel that way later if not forever.

When Armon heard Faith say the word 'forever' he quickened his thrust slamming into her harder each time. Her words were exactly what he wanted to hear and they caused an excitement in him like nothing he had ever felt.

Faith could tell Armon's body was building up to his climax by the way he seemed to get harder. The feeling was wonderful as she also felt her body getting closer to her own climax. The way he filled her pushing more into her with each thrust put her on edge, but not enough for her to reach her. When she heard him say, "Forever, my love. Forever." It was her undoing and her climax hit her taking her breath away.

As Armon looked at Faith's face as her climax hit he knew he had to see this for the rest of his life. There was no way he would give up seeing the pleasure in her eyes and on her face that he put there. It was just too perfect and intense as he slammed into her like a man out of control as his own climax spilled into her yelling out her name over and over.

Her body was still in the middle of her climax, but as she felt Armon spill into her, she seemed to have found the air in her lungs and yelled out his name. She had never known that her climax would hit again so quickly.

"I could stay like this but you do need to eat," Armon said kissing Faith lightly.

"And what about you? Don't you need to eat?"

"Nothing since I have you. You fill me so completely that I don't think I would ever need to eat again," he said smiling down at her.

Faith felt the same. And hearing her thoughts out loud from Armon was proof that they did belong together.

Looking into her eyes, Armon could see she was thinking about something and he started to scare him. They had just made love and confessed their feelings to each other. "What is it?" he asked.

"Just thinking about how many more rounds we can go before we get to our destination," Faith said pulling Armon into a kiss. She could feel his erection getting harder and knew they were about to start round two.

"Well, I was driving you D.C. so that could put us into double digit rounds," he said slowly moving inside her.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

LC Dorsey is married with two children and lives in Alabama. She has been writing for many years. She loves history, old movies, shopping, reading anything romantic and traveling with her family.

Check out LC Dorsey on facebook: http://www.facebook.com/lcdorsey.9 to get updates about other books.

Books to look for:

Three Choices Series

The Ex

The Friend

The Decision

Available online now

Sisters

Trust

TRUSTING – sequel

Three Choices-The Millionaire

Baring All

What will await Faith and Armon in Washington D.C.? Well, only time will tell. But until then here's a little of what is to come in part 2 of the _Three Choices_ series The Ex. Enjoy.

Three Choices

The EX

As Malcolm watched Faith coming out of the hospital his heart began to beat faster with joy. The look on her face was one of happiness. Not at all like the look she gave him just two weeks earlier when she had said, "I'm sorry that I loved you.." Those words were the most hurtful he had ever heard her say. But he deserved it for what had had done to her and to them.

Now, as she walked towards his car he could see a smile, move across her face. The look on her face he had seen a million times when they would walk together or when she spotted him in a room. He thought that maybe she had forgiven him and would give them another chance. Malcolm's own smile began to even brighten as Faith got closer to his car.

Everything was going better than he had planned. He had thought he would have a hard time trying to convince her to give them another try and let him explain. But seeing her face, it seemed as if she could care less about his explanation. So if she didn't want to hear it, he wouldn't press it as long as they were together.

As he turned off the car and put his hand on the door handle with Faith just in front of him, his smile quickly faded as she continued pass heading for a black limo just on the other side of the curb from him. It was the same car he had seen her getting into one night when he had come to her apartment.

He watched silently as a man rushed out of the car and pulled Faith into his arms and kissed her. Malcolm could tell by how Faith's body moved that this was the reason for the happiness on her face. The happiness he thought was for him.
