 
# Trusted Company

### #7 of Company Men

## Crystal Perkins
Copyright © 2017 by Crystal Perkins

Cover Model: Guil Claveria

Photo by Alesha Claveria

Cover Design by Helen Williams

www.allbookedout.com

All trademarks are owned by their respective companies and are denoted by the use of proper capitalization of the company and/or brand. All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book. This contemporary erotic romance is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, brands, media, and incidents are either the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of various products referenced in this work of fiction, which have been used without permission. The publication/use of these trademarks is not authorized, associated with, or sponsored by the trademark owners. This ebook is licensed for your personal use only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with, especially if you enjoy sexy, emotional, romance novels with alpha males. If you are reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then you should return it and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the author's work.

 Created with Vellum

### Contents

About Trusted Company

Books by Crystal Perkins

Praise for Books by Crystal Perkins

Things to Know

Prologue

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Epilogue

Coming Soon

Acknowledgments

About the Author

# About Trusted Company

### Friend. Lover. Businessman. Liar.

**Friend. Lover. Businessman. Liar.**

Guil never breaks a promise. Especially not one to a friend who dies in his arms. He'll do whatever he has to in order to keep his promises, even if it means lying to the woman he loves.

* * *

**Sister. Daughter. Artist. Innocent.**

Lyla has been in love with Guil for years, but he only thinks of her as his friend's little sister. With her brother's death, things have changed—and so has she. She goes after what she wants, putting everything at risk.

* * *

**Lies. Passion. Betrayal. Love.**

Guil is no match for Lyla once she lets herself be bold and brave. Their passion and love consume them until he has to keep his promise, and then it all falls apart. Betrayal and the lies he's forced himself to tell destroy everything beautiful they've created as he plots his revenge.

* * *

**When the sins of the past collide with the promise of the future, can they trust their love—or will it all be over soon after it begins?**

# Books by Crystal Perkins

**The Griffin Brothers series**

Gaming For Love (The Griffin Brothers #1)

Building Our Love (The Griffin Brothers #2)

Creating A Love (The Griffin Brothers #3)

Learning To Love (The Griffin Brothers #4)

Designing The Love (The Griffin Brothers #5)

Working On Love (The Griffin Brothers #6)

Keeping Their Love (The Griffin Brothers #7)

**Corrigan & Co. series**

Fielding Her SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #1)

Devouring the SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #2)

Rocking a SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #3)

Lessons in SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #4)

Uncovering His SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #5)

Training the SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #6)

Inheriting a SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #7)

Tending Their SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #8)

Playing in SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #9)

Loving My SECRET (Corrigan & Co., #10)

Society Weddings (a Corrigan & Co. novella)

**Society Girls series**

Society Girls: Sierra (Society Girls, #1)

Society Girls: Neveah (Society Girls, #2)

Society Girls: Matisse (Society Girls, #3)

Society Girls: Waverly (Society Girls, #4)

Society Girls: Rhieve (Society Girls, #5)

Society Girls: Jenysis (Society Girls, #6)

Society Girls: Harlow (Society Girls, #7)

Society Girls: Camari (Society Girls, #8)

Society Girls: Kalila (Society Girls, #9)

Society Girls: Rose (Society Girls, #10)

**Company Men series**

Royal Company (Company Men, #1)

Unexpected Company (Company Men, #2)

Savage Company (Company Men, #3)

Brash Company (Company Men, #4)

Defiant Company (Company Men, #5)

Vital Company (Company Men, #6)

**Other books**

A Kiss is Just a Kiss

Activate

Never Fear-Phobias Horror Anthology

Never Fear-Christmas Terrors Anthology

Romantic Times Anthology, Vol. 3

(Gary and Maggie Griffin short story)

Never Fear-The Tarot Anthology

Never Fear-The Apocalypse Anthology

# Praise for Books by Crystal Perkins

"People should be free to love whoever their heart leads them, too. And this author did a great job of presenting a passionate love between 2 people who are seen as different from each other as dictated by society, but this difference wasn't a part of the love they share. Ms. Perkins did an admirable job of dealing with the issue (and other issues) as a non issue, if that makes sense." -DianeM, Amazon Reviewer, _Creating A Love_

* * *

"I love this series!!!!!! Crystal has the amazing ability to bring her characters to life. I laugh with them, I hurt with them, I smile with them, and I cry with them." -Jessica, Amazon reviewer, _The Griffin Brothers series_

* * *

"I love how Crystal makes the characters feel like real people." -Tami, Amazon Reviewer, _Learning To Love_

* * *

"This is a lovely romance story that has a sexy sizzle to it but it's funny as well as it is somewhat edgy. I like that the hero has money but it's not the focal point in this story. I love that the heroine has problems but they are not so insurmountable that they take over the story. This is good old-fashioned romance done with a modern day twist. Well Done." -Kindle Customer, Amazon Reviewer, _Gaming For Love_

* * *

"I found this book on Amazon yesterday and loved the cover. I read the synopsis and knew I had to get it. So I purchased it and started to read it right away. Oh my, I could not put the book down. I got so wrapped up in the story I was afraid to put my Kindle down or I would miss a part." -Amazon Customer, _Gaming For Love_

* * *

"I thought this was a fantastic start to a series, and kind of first book of a series that makes you want to rush out and buy each additional book in the series. The premise of a strong group of women working together to help other women in need was pretty awesome. I loved how C0rrigan & Co was a secret covert company along the same lines as the underground railroad but it saved women from sticky situations or abusive relationships." -Aubrey, Romancing the Book blog, _Fielding Her SECRET_

* * *

"I had so many different emotions while reading. I was rooting people, wanting kick people, wanting to rip some peoples clothes off, laughing while reading, gasping out loud. Seriously, I read this like a crazy person. So much happened that I was not mentally prepared for. There were so many shockers while reading this I could not even think about putting the book down." -Sabrina, Amazon Reviewer, _Devouring the SECRET_

* * *

"Love this book the suspense and sex is EPIC." -Teresa Jensen, Amazon Reviewer, _Rocking a SECRET_

* * *

_"_ Perkins breathes life into their characters and has the reader feeling their agony, pain, and even their love for one-another. I enjoy reading her books and learning more and more about each of the people that make up this secretive group." -Dayreader Reviews, _Corrigan & Co. series_

* * *

"In the end I am somehow proud of you Crystal Perkins. How you portrayed Ellie and her and Aiden love. I know I have no right to be, and it's really not my place to say but I am proud I read it and I recommend it to all women so they can see how strong We can be." -Marta Bukowska, Goodreads Reviewer, _Tending Their SECRET_

* * *

"The story flowed well and kept my attention throughout. There was one part I was totally not expecting to happen. I love when that happens." -Lisa Dess, Girls With Books blog, _Training Her SECRET_

* * *

"Wow this story! There are some stories and characters that leave you speechless, breathless and at times slightly broken, and Loving my SECRET Matt & Reina's story is definitely one of them!" -Vicki Plant, Goodreads Reviewer, _Loving My SECRET_

"I laughed I cried and there many times that I wanted to throw my device." -Mallory, Goodreads Reviewer, _Loving My SECRET_

"Perkins gives the reader a quick peak into the Weddings of the amazing ladies in the society. What a fun roller coaster ride it was." -Taz Lozada, Goodreads Reviewer, _Society Weddings_

"Totally loved this book as I did with all of crystals book previous to this with their well written gripping story lines brilliant characters a must read really can't wait for the next in series." – Sassylady33, Amazon Reviewer, _Society Girls: Sierra_

"It is banter central, lol and completely full with characters who you actually get to know and enjoy spending time with." – All Booked Out, _A Kiss is Just a Kiss_

"Good book and a really powerful message." Petrina, Goodreads Reviewer, _Society Girls: Jenysis_

"If you're looking for a great book, this is the one." Renee, Goodreads Reviewer, _Society Girls: Kalila_

"I love these books!!!! I seem to read them in one sitting I just can't put them down!!!" Rita, Amazon Reviewer

"This is the new series by a brilliant author and still incorporates the characters from her previous series. This book was brilliant, the author always writes about strong characters with a vulnerable side and she delivered once again. This book was one of her more lighthearted ones, but still had the angst I have come to associate with Crystal Perkins." Natasha, Amazon Reviewer, _Royal Company_

# Things to Know

If you haven't read any of the Corrigan & Co. books, you can still read this book. I'm listing some info below that will be helpful to you!

The Society: A secret group of female spies, operating out of the Corrigan & Co. Foundation. It was created by Jane Corrigan, Maggie Griffin, Helen Wilson, Mallory Daniels, and Cyndi Evans. They still make their presence known from time to time, but the Society is now run by Reina Corrigan. She is the wife of Jane's grandson, Matt Corrigan, and someone not to be trifled with. Their story, _Loving My SECRET_ , is the only book I don't recommend reading without having read the others.

The male characters in Company Men are all brothers, or friends, of the spies. Most of the women in the books will not know of their existence, since those who work for Corrigan & Co. have no idea what the beautiful women of the Foundation really do. Some are in awe of them, and some resent how they seem to come and go, and do whatever they want.

Corrigan & Co.: Matthew Corrigan runs this public side of the company. One of the most powerful men in the world, he's ruthless in business, and would do anything to protect his wife, and their friends. His brother, Miles, works alongside him, running the Acquisitions department, and doing what he can to help the Society women. His wife, Alex, runs the front desk at the Foundation. Their love story was in the book, _Working on Love_ , which is always free in ebook format, on all platforms, as it connects my first two series, and also gives more insight into Matt and Reina's story.

The Studkateers are what the men connected to the Society (including the Griffin brothers) call themselves. They have a strong friendship with each other, they're hot, and I love The Three Musketeers, so why not?

Guil is best friends with Calum, who is the love interest in Society Girls: Rhieve. Calum is a billionaire businessman who owns a string of sex clubs on the side. Guil runs those sex clubs. After Calum and Rhieve's book, some readers asked for Guil to have his own book, so here it is.
**_For Alesha and Guil. I am so glad to be friends with such amazing people!_**

# Prologue

Guil

My knee bounces up and down as I wait outside of Miles' office. I could be one floor up, seeing Matt, but I chose Miles instead. Matt's a great guy, but he's intense as fuck, and right now, I'm on edge enough for this whole building. I need someone who will understand where I'm coming from and help, and I'm betting on Miles to be that person.

"You can go in now," Miles' assistant Sully tells me.

"Thanks."

"Hey Guil," Miles says when I walk in, rising out of his chair to shake my hand.

"Hey."

"What's going on?"

"I need a job."

He sits back in his chair with his fingers steepled under his mouth, and regards me thoughtfully. "I was under the impression you already had one or two already."

"I do."

"You've got me on the edge of my seat."

"There's a girl. A woman. I've known her since she was a girl. My childhood best friend was her brother. He died last year and I made him a promise as he took his last breath. It's one I can't keep if I'm associated with Calum."

"He asked you to promise to take care of her? I know it's a cliché, but if my brother or one of the other Studkateers asked me to look after someone or something for them, I'd do it."

"Something like that. I know I shouldn't be attracted to her, but I am. I think she wants me too. I mean, she kissed me this weekend when I visited the family."

"And she doesn't know about the sex clubs? Her family either?"

"No. I told them I work here. I just need a title and some fake business cards."

"Did you think about asking me or Matt before you told them?"

"I honestly wasn't thinking at all."

"Why not Calum's company? The non-club one. I thought you had a job with a title there."

"I do, but everyone knows he's connected to sex clubs. I seriously can't be connected to him in any way for this to have a chance."

"Hiding the truth never works out well, my friend."

"There's no other way."

"International Relations Specialist has a nice ring to it."

I sigh in relief. "Thank you."

"I have an empty office on this floor if you need it."

"No. I told them I work remotely, traveling for you."

He nods and types something on a tablet from his desk. "Gotcha. Business cards will be waiting for you downstairs."

"That fast?" I ask, knowing there's special paper or something they use so the cards can't be faked.

"You know some of our secrets, Guil, so this shouldn't surprise you."

"You're right. I'm just off my game."

"I'll say again that I don't think lying is going to help you find your way with this woman, but I'm happy to help you get where you want to be."

"I appreciate it."

Rising from my chair, I shake his hand. As he said, the business cards are waiting for me at the security desk in the lobby. This is it—the plan I put into motion months ago. If I play it right, I'll get the woman _and_ the reward. Then again, I could lose it all. No. Losing can't be an option.

Lyla

Sheltered doesn't even come close to describing my life. My parents have always been strict, but it got worse when my brother died. He was my best friend, my buffer, and the only person I trusted with everything. I told him all of my secrets, including the crush I've always had on his best friend, Guil.

That may seem weird, but it wasn't. I knew he'd understand and he did. He even said he'd help me. I know he would've if that car hadn't hit him. A random, drunk, hit-and-run. At least, the police think the person who hit him must've been drunk. They never found them, and I know it drives Guil crazy because he was there. He held my brother's hand as he died. And, he vowed to avenge him. That hasn't happened yet, but I haven't given up hope.

If anything, I've become bolder. Guil visited my family last week, and I kissed him. I kissed him with a desperation I know he felt—and I loved it. I loved those few seconds our lips were joined. The way he started to kiss me back before pulling away with what I can only describe as a growl, and the way he looked at me after.

It's not the way he looked at me when I was following him and Brad around. They never gave me a hard time about it, but I know I didn't hide my crush very well. Especially when Guil would do something nice for me, like defending me from our classmates, and helping me with my homework. I wanted him back then, but he didn't think of me that way. Now, I'm sure he does.

Guil wanted me in that moment when I kissed him, and I know if I push him again, he won't stop so easily. Now, I just need to convince him to be alone with me again. I don't know how, but I know I have to do it.

# Chapter 1

Guil

My home here in Santa Barbara is larger than I could ever need, but it's important for me to keep up with everyone but the Kardashians. Looking the part is more important than living it, and I can admit what I've got looks good. A mansion by most people's standards, but not so ostentatious it scares people away.

Walking in the front door, you can see all the way to the ocean through the foyer and living room. Two levels also contain a gourmet kitchen, formal dining room, office, five bathrooms, and four bedrooms. I only use my master suite, the office, and the kitchen. Everything else is for show inside the house.

Outside is the pool I take my morning swim in as well as strategically placed seating areas and landscaping that's on point with what's expected of a very wealthy man. Yes, I'm wealthy and yes, it's well known. Makes my need for a job confusing I know, but trust me, it's necessary.

My wealth comes from generations before me, with no business left standing. I sold it all when I inherited it, knowing I wasn't cut out for finance and a suit. The only power I crave is sexual, so lording my wealth over employees who cared more than I did just wasn't my thing. So yeah, I need to look like more than just a billionaire bachelor with no ambition. Especially now.

The buzzer from my front gate goes off, causing me to frown as I'm not expecting anyone. Deliveries aren't a thing unless I've ordered an item myself and mail goes to the club. Standing, I drop my towel on a lounger and amble through the house to the front door. What I see on the monitor there momentarily stuns me. Layla.

I haven't seen her since she kissed me, and I'm not sure I'm ready for her. I've got the job title from Miles and years of trying to pretend her crush was one-sided to deal with. If Brad hadn't told me he couldn't think of anyone better for his sister, I wouldn't act on what I've been feeling for all of these years. Hell, I still don't know if I'm going to act on it. All I know is I want her, and this may be my only chance to have her. Even if doing so sends me straight to Hell.

"Hey Layla, what's up?" I ask, forcing my voice to remain steady.

"I, um. I have something to talk to you about."

Shit. I can't say no. I don't want to say no. I promised my friend I _wouldn't_ say no. But for a moment, I wish I could.

"Sure. Come on in."

I could get dressed. It'll take her a couple of minutes to get to the door, and I'm still in my swim trunks. I could, but I don't. Instead, I open the door and lean against it, putting my defined chest and abs on display. She nearly takes out a rosebush when she pulls up to the house, and I can't help but smirk.

"You okay there?" I ask once she's out of her car.

"What? Oh, yes. I'm good."

She's better than good, but neither of us are ready for me to tell her that yet. Soon, but not today. Today I can't let her know I think he hair looks so soft I'm afraid I'll break it in half when I pull it. I can't tell her about how lost I feel every time I look into her blue eyes—or how I find myself in them too. And no way can I mention how much I love her lush curves. She's got a body men love, and women sometimes hate for themselves, and once I get my hands on it, I don't think I'll ever be able to let go. Today is not the day for any of that, so I make myself turn my back on her.

"Let's go talk in my office."

"Okay."

Her voice is smaller, and more unsure, as she answers. I'm an ass and I've always owned it, but I feel a little bad about it right now.

"I'm not dismissing you," I say, turning back to her and catching her as she bounces off my chest.

"You are. Just like you did when I kissed you. But, I'm not giving up. This is what I want and it's going to happen."

Well, well, well. Someone's not so shy right now. "You gonna tie me up and have your way with me?"

"Only if that's what you're into."

Damn. I'm not into that—although I've tried it before—but my dick is telling me I could be into it with Lyla. "Don't offer something you're not willing to follow up on."

"Who says I'm not willing?"

Okay, time to cool this down. Would it be rude for me to jump back in my pool for a minute—or ten? Yeah, I know it would. Another line of questioning might just do the trick, though.

"How many men have you been with?"

"I've been with a few boys. I wouldn't call any of them men, because they couldn't find my clitoris if their lives depended on it. And never mind my G-spot."

"Boys," I concur, shaking my head at how bold she's being right now.

"You up for the challenge?"

"I wasn't issued a challenge," I tell her, because I can't help myself.

"I kissed you two weeks ago. What more do I have to do to get you to notice me?"

I don't remember either of us moving, but we're inches apart right now, those words whispered over my lips. She's right—she issued the challenge and it's time for me to meet it. As much as I lied to myself and said I could wait, I know I can't.

"Nothing," I tell her, closing those last few inches and moving my mouth over hers in little kisses. "Absolutely nothing."

Lyla

He's kissing me. Guil is actually kissing me. Why now? Why is he kissing me now when he wouldn't before? I need to stop thinking about it and just let myself feel, but my brain refuses to shut off.

"You're thinking too hard over there," he says, stopping and stepping back to look at me.

His hands are still on my waist and mine are holding onto his shoulders for dear life, but I'm losing him. I don't want to lose him when I finally might be getting him.

"I was just surprised. I don't know why you're okay with this now when you weren't before."

He breathes out a frustrated sigh. "You're too good for me. You have to know that."

"Why? Because you didn't take over your family's company instead of selling it? Or because you work for someone else?"

"I know you don't care about my job, or what I do."

He says it, but I see a glimmer of doubt flash in his eyes. It's fast, but I see it. "Then what, do you think my brother would want you to stay away from me? Because, he wouldn't. He knew how I felt about you, and he even said he'd help me get you to notice me."

"I've always noticed you, Ly. And I know he wanted us together, because he _did_ tell me. He told me, and he made me promise to give you a chance. I'm giving you that chance now. Take what I can give you—or don't."

"What can you give me?"

I'll take whatever it is, and then I'll convince him to give me more. I want it all.

"Kisses. I can give you kisses for now."

It's not what I want to hear, but it's a start. "For now."

We both move at once, but he's stronger and I'm against the wall in seconds. His mouth caresses my lips for long minutes before he nips me. I gasp, and he slides his tongue inside my mouth. I grab his hair where it's longer on top, and pull hard. His moan tells me he likes it. Both his claiming of my mouth and me pulling his hair. I like it too. No, I love it.

I want this to last forever, but I need to take a breath. Just one tiny breath. I pull back an inch. "Wow."

I didn't mean to say it, but it seems to break the cocoon we were in, and now I'm aware of more than just Guil's lips. I'm aware of how I'm wrapped around his body like I'm trying to climb a tree. More importantly, I'm aware of his hard penis pressing into my hip.

I start to slide to my knees, my mouth watering. I want a taste of him right now, but strong arms stop my descent. "Just kisses. I told you that."

"And that's all I'm planning to do. Kiss it."

"Fuck."

"Is that an offer?"

"No. And no kissing of any body parts but mouths today."

I place my hands on my hips and move my mouth into a pout. "That wasn't part of the initial offer."

"Are you trying to kill me, Ly? Because I'm going straight to Hell when I die. I'd like a little more time on Earth, please."

"Melodramatic much?" I ask, rolling my eyes. Inside I'm hurting a little, because I know he really thinks he's a bad man. I don't know why, but I want to.

"Honest."

"Why do you think you're such a bad guy? I just don't see it. You give to charity, you were a good friend to my brother. Why?"

"I hope to God you never find out, which is why this needs to end for today. Did you have something to talk about, or were you just planning a seduction?"

"Does it even matter now?"

I turn to go, but he grabs my arm. "Yes, it matters. _You_ matter."

I want to believe him. I want to, but I don't. I've only ever felt I mattered to one person, and when he died, so did most of my hope. I escaped to this city and this house, hoping for shelter. I should've known better.

"I just want to go right now, okay?"

He lets go of my arm instantly, and I immediately miss the warmth of his touch. "Where are you staying? I'll pick you up for breakfast tomorrow, and we can talk."

"I don't know."

"You don't know where you're staying?"

"I was being impulsive, driving here. I thought—I hoped—I'd be staying here."

"Do your parents know where you are?"

"No. Please don't call them. I'll go home and tell them I was just wandering through the Getty all day or something."

I live in Newport Beach, which isn't so far, but it's not close either. If I leave now, I can be back home before arousing suspicion, but I'd much rather keep arousing the man in front of me. Indecision crosses his face now, and I hold my breath.

"You can stay here tonight. I have extra bedrooms, and there's one that will suit you."

"Thank you," I say, throwing my arms around him. "I'll get my bag."

"Just tonight."

"Okay."

I want a lot more than one night, but I practically skip past the small fountain out front as Guil grabs my small bag from my car. I wouldn't have made it out of the house with a suitcase, but since I'm expected to always be painting when the mood strikes, I could bring a bag.

"This is beautiful," I tell him, taking in the room on the second floor he leads me to.

It has a queen-sized bed, a window seat, and a balcony looking out over the Pacific. There's no bathtub in the ensuite, but the rainfall shower is going to feel wonderful after how tense I've been all day. I'm holding out hope I'll convince him to join me.

"The kitchen is fully stocked, and I can leave a list of trusted places to order from if you want to stay in tonight."

"I could make dinner for us."

"I'm going out tonight, but feel free to make yourself whatever you'd like."

Out? He's going out, even after kissing me like that? Of course he is.

"Lunch?" I ask desperately.

"You don't need to cook for me."

"I want to."

He nods. "Okay. I have some work to do, but I can break for lunch."

It's something. I have to keep reminding myself of that, or I'll go crazy. He kissed me, he's letting me stay the night, and we're having lunch together. They're all _something._

# Chapter 2

Guil

I wasn't lying when I told Lyla I knew I was going to Hell, and I hoped she'd never learn why. This club right here is one of those reasons. Not that I think anything wrong happens here, because I don't, but I know she would. She thinks she wants a man, but she doesn't really know what that means in my world. What a man who plays here would do to her. Seeing this place would send her running. Maybe I should bring her here after all.

"Red again," a woman says, approaching me. I'm pretty sure we've fucked before, but I don't remember the details. Or her name. I should remember her name, because I make it a point to know the names of all the club patrons, but I'm still off my game tonight. Having Lyla in my house, cooking me lunch and kissing me, is too much—and not enough.

"Yes."

It's the one-word answer I give to everyone who's approached me since the kiss at Lyla's family home. I've come here many nights hoping to forget her, but the moment I step inside, I know it's going to be red I'm wearing. In here, red means I'm off-limits. As I've usually worn green in the past—meaning anything goes—I can see why they're surprised. Hell, I'm surprised myself, but it is what it is. I don't want anyone but Lyla.

"Your loss."

"Okay."

"Sure I can't change your mind?"

"Positive," I tell her, glaring now, because she knows the rules.

"Suit yourself."

"I always do."

After two more women—and one man—approach me despite the red anklet, I decide to call it a night, and head to my office to finish some paperwork. My official title is President of Operations, and I don't manage the individual clubs any longer, but this one is between managers, so I've been overseeing it. I'm deciding between two candidates for the job, and I'm honestly stuck. Both would do a great job, so I don't know who to pick.

With that thought in mind, I text Calum from my office, asking him to come by in the next couple of weeks to help me decide. I hate keeping people in limbo, but both candidates told me they're fine with waiting as long as necessary. It doesn't hurt that both are members of the club. Maybe that's it—maybe I need to pay more attention to how they behave in the club itself.

I've seen them both in play, but I've never really paid much attention to the interactions they have outside of sex. Being in charge means walking a thin line between enjoying the perks of the job and enforcing the rules. Separating the intimacy of sex with the power wielded outside the playrooms. I've never had a problem with it and neither has Calum, but it's hard for some to handle. Hence, the need for a new manager.

Once I've answered a few emails and checked in with my security team and the supervisors on duty, I head home. The club is open 24/7, so there's always someone else on duty, even while I'm there. It's another perk of the management job—making your own hours.

Pulling into my driveway, I note Lyla's car out front. I'd feel bad about not having room in my six-car garage for her, but she's only here for this one night. And, my rides need their own space. It's just the way it is.

Once inside the house, I'm assaulted by the smell of cookies. Lemon cookies to be exact. My stomach rumbles and I have no choice, but to follow the heavenly scent to the kitchen. I can't say I'm surprised to see Lyla there, frosting them with a smile on her face.

"Welcome home."

Damn if it doesn't feel like that's what this is—coming home.

Lyla

I smile when Guil walks into the kitchen, but then I frown when I get a whiff of the perfume on his body. _Perfumes_. There are more than one, and they all smell expensive. I don't wear perfume so I know none of them are mine. How could I have been so stupid?

"Enjoy the cookies," I say, pushing past him as I run from the room.

"What's wrong?" he asks, following me up the stairs.

"You smell like the women you've obviously been with."

"Excuse me?" he asks, straightening his spine like he's readying for battle.

Yeah, well so am I. "You couldn't wait until I was out of the house? I know you had plans tonight, but was it so necessary to flaunt them in my face."

"You honestly think I would make out with you against the wall of my home, kiss us both senseless during lunch, and then go and get it on with some other women? You think that little of me?"

"I don't know what to think," I admit, some of the anger seeping out of me.

"Because you don't really know me. You have this romanticized vision of a guy who visited your brother, but that's not me. I'm not romantic or sweet, Lyla. I'm fiercely loyal, considerate to those I care about, and I keep my promises. Those are things you can count on. Don't keep looking for more."

"You can't ask that of me. I want to know more. I want to know it all. You aren't going to scare me away. Yes, I'll admit maybe my crush on you is a little much, but you kissed me and I want more. Let me stay here with you and get to know you."

"No."

"Please, Guil. You said you promised my brother you'd give me a chance."

He looks away, then looks at the ceiling, and finally looks back at me. "That's the only reason I'm going to let you stay. But you need to be clear on this—I will not fuck you until I think you're ready, and I meant what I said about not being romantic, so don't expect it. In fact, you'd be best served by not expecting anything from me."

"I'm ready now, and I don't need romance."

One of those is a lie, but I can deal with not being romanced. At least, I hope I can.

"You're not ready, and you deserve romance."

I shrug. "I deserve what I want, and I want you."

"I'm going to take a shower and then I'll meet you in the kitchen. We need to talk about what this is going to look like, and decide what to do about your parents. They won't be okay with this."

"I'm an adult and it's time I started living like one."

"I agree," he tells me with a smile. It's the first one he's given me since we kissed earlier today, and it warms me all over.

"I'm going to finish frosting the cookies while you take your shower. Unless you need help washing your back."

"Not tonight, Ly."

"Can't blame me for trying."

"No, I can't."

He leans in and gives me a sweet kiss on the lips. This man thinks he's not sweet, but he is. If he wasn't, I'd be in a hotel right now. Promise or no promise, I've got my work cut out for me. Good thing I'm not scared of working hard, especially when it comes to Guil. I've waited too long to back down now when I've finally got a chance at being with him.

As he walks away, I think about things I could do to speed things along. I could "accidentally" splash some water on my t-shirt while rinsing off the dishes. Or I could drop some frosting on my collarbone, hoping he'd lick or suck it off. There are lots of things I could do to manipulate the situation, but I won't do them. I want Guil fair and square and I'm not going to play dirty to get him—at least not yet.

# Chapter 3

Guil

I'm not expecting Miles to call me, but it's his name flashing across my cell phone the next morning. Lyla's making breakfast, and looking like she belongs in my house. Two things I both love and hate at the same time. This call is probably the distraction I need.

"Hey Miles."

"Hey. Listen, I need a favor. Or actually just for you to do the job you're pretending to do."

"Of course."

"One of the clients I've been courting from Amsterdam is vacationing in Santa Barbara. I've convinced him to go to dinner with you tonight. A C&C laptop will be delivered shortly so you can go over the info."

"You could just email it to me."

"No, I really can't."

Gotta love a company that's got a hidden spy organization running through it. "Gotcha."

"Thanks again. Oh, and he's expecting you to bring a date. His wife didn't want to be left alone in their room while he was out. I hope that's not a problem."

"I think I can handle it," I say, looking over at the only woman I would even consider taking to something like this.

"Great. Call me if you have any questions. Otherwise, I'll talk to you tomorrow."

"Yep. Talk to you soon."

"I think it's cool you're working for the Corrigans," Lyla tells me as she slides a plate across the island to me. The omelet, potatoes, and toast look perfect.

"Me too. This looks amazing. Thanks."

"You're welcome. The least I can do is cook for you while I'm here."

"I don't expect that."

"I know."

"Listen, I know you didn't bring much with you, but Miles needs me to go to dinner with a prospective client tonight, and he asked me to bring a date."

"I can shop. I need painting things anyway."

"I'll pay for whatever you need."

"No. You know I have my own 8ujmoney."

How am I going to say this to her without sounding like an ass? Not a chance of that, so here I go. "Can you get something a little different than what you're wearing—what you normally wear?"

She looks down at her loose dress, which is covered in flowers and hides all of her fantastic curves. "What's wrong with this dress?"

"It covers you up."

"Unless you're planning to loan me out or something, that shouldn't matter."

"Hell no, I'm not letting another man touch you."

"Then again, what does it matter?"

I scratch the back of my head and try to come up with the right words once again. "From the small glimpses I've seen, and the way you felt when I had my hands on you, I know you're rocking some serious curves. I want you to embrace their magnificence, and stop hiding."

"If I was hiding, I wouldn't be here right now. I can only do so much in a day."

"Tell me what you're covering up," I say, standing and moving to hold her hips in my hands again. "Why don't you want the world to see you?"

She swallows hard, then moves one of my hands to her stomach. "It's not flat."

"No," I agree, moving my hand in small circles over her soft skin. "It doesn't need to be."

Letting out a frustrated sigh, she moves my other hand lower, letting me feel her thighs touching. I nearly lose all control, but I manage to hold on to a tiny thread for dear life.

"They touch."

"Beautiful. All of you is beautiful."

"I'm a sure thing, Guil. You don't need to say things you think I need to hear."

"We've already established how non-sweet I am, so why would you think I'm acting that way right now. I love the way you look."

I look her in the eyes when I say the words, making sure she knows I mean what I say. She's gorgeous and I can't believe she doesn't know that. She looks in my eyes for a long minute before nodding.

"I could maybe find something a little more fitted. Not tight or revealing, but I know I have nice breasts I could showcase."

"Your rack is the thing of wet dreams, Ly. Once we get a little further in whatever this is we're doing, I'm going to be spending a lot of time there."

"It's not nice to tease me."

"Not teasing."

"Your hands are."

Her words hit me and I freeze. I hadn't even notice how one hand was moving up her ribs while the other was sliding between her thighs. I immediately remove my hands and step back.

"Sorry."

"I'm only sorry you've stopped now."

"Soon."

"Not soon enough," she mumbles, and I silently agree.

That one little touch was enough to make me forget myself. I'm already craving more of her, and now that I know she's willing, it's getting even harder to resist her. Oh yeah, I'm definitely in trouble. If I'm being honest, I can admit to myself that's exactly where I want to be.

Lyla

I want to make Guil happy. It's the reason I left Newport, the reason I'm ignoring the calls from my parents—although I texted that I'm fine and just need time alone—and it's the reason I'm in this dress right now. It's off the shoulder, fitted through the bodice, and flares out from my hips. There's still flowers trailing over it, but it's nothing like the dress I was wearing when I walked into the boutique earlier today.

The women working there said I looked good, and objectively I know I do, but it's hard to get over a lifetime of insecurities in one afternoon. I'm going to keep this dress on, and not change into the looser dress I bought, because Guil asked me for this. I'm not going to be that girl who only dresses for her guy, but I can do it for one night. Moving out of my comfort zone is a good thing. It led me here, and I've already been kissed in a way I only dreamed of before.

"Ly, you ready?" Guil asks, knocking lightly on my door.

"Almost."

"Can I come in?"

"Yes."

"Wow."

"You don't have to say that. It's a little tight in my stomach, and my breasts and ass look huge."

He walks forward, and takes my hands in his, placing them on my shoulders. "These shoulders drive me insane." Moving our hands, he runs them over my breasts. "And well, we already talked about these this morning. Perfection." Down to my waist. "I want you to be able to breathe and eat comfortably. Can you?" I nod. "I like that it's snug, because I know how soft your skin is beneath here, and it makes me want to touch it again." Over to my hips. "I love holding onto these." Across my ass, where he squeezes each cheek. "Your ass inspires lots of dreams and fantasies."

"You make me feel more beautiful than I ever have in my life."

"Good."

He kisses me lightly on the lips, a mere brush that doesn't disturb my lipstick. It disturbs _me_ because I want so much more from him. I reach for him, but he backs up.

"I want a proper kiss!"

"After dinner, I'll kiss you all you want. If I do it now, your beautiful hair is going to be a mess, and your mouth is going to be swollen. I can't mess you up before I take you out."

"I want more than kisses tonight. Touching at least."

"Maybe."

"I'll be good at dinner. I'll eat a little and make interesting conversation."

"That's not what this is about. I never want you to think you have to act a certain way, or eat a certain way, or _be_ a certain way. I invited you because I want _you_. However you want to be. I shouldn't have asked you to dress differently than you usually do. I just want you to see how perfect you are. Do you want to change?"

He's looking me in the eye, waiting for my answer. I know he means everything he says, and while it's hard for me to accept, I want to. I want to accept that I'm as beautiful as he makes me feel.

"No. I like this. I didn't think I would, but I do."

Guil's smile lights up his face, and then he's leaning down to kiss my collarbone. It's sweet and sexy all at once. "We need to go before I lose the willpower to resist you."

I accept the hand he holds out to me, lacing my fingers with his as we walk downstairs and into the garage. He has his two motorcycles in here, along with various cars and an SUV. I'm not surprised when he leads me to the Maybach, as I know we're making an impression tonight.

The drive to the restaurant is short, and I can't help but smile when Guil tells the valet to leave my door for him. His hand is on my back as we walk in and I like it. I like feeling possessed by this man.

"You must be Guil and Lyla," an older gentleman says, rising from the table. The stunning woman sitting next to him just smiles at us.

"Yes. Thank you for meeting with us George."

"Well, I've wanted to talk to someone from C&C, but Vegas isn't our favorite place to travel to. Too much noise and tourists."

"You just need to find some out of the way places to hang out, and then it's pretty great."

"We might take you up on that one day, but for now, I'm happy we could talk here in this beautiful city."

George introduces us to his wife, Emily, and we all take our seats. Emily and I make small talk while the men talk business, which makes me glad for my upbringing. I can talk to anyone, anywhere, about almost anything.

"Are you ready to order?" the waitress asks, coming to stand next to our table. Or more accurately, next to Guil who she's been eye-fucking since we arrived.

The men order steak, Emily orders the sea bass, and then it's my turn. I want to order something sensible, but the menu just looks too good. I'm feeling confident tonight and I want to eat something good.

"I'll have the seafood risotto."

"Are you sure?" the waitress asks.

"Is it not good?"

"Oh, it's delicious. I just wasn't sure you really wanted to order that on a date."

"Thanks for thinking of me, but I'm good."

She walks away, and Guil starts to get out of his chair. "I'm going to speak to the manager."

"No," I say, putting my hand on his arm. "She's not important."

"Well, all I can say is that the risotto sounded heavenly, and I'm hoping you'll let me try a bite," Emily tells me.

"Of course."

The food is wonderful, and the conversation keeps flowing through the meal. Guil and I share a dessert after our meals, and I only turn a little red when he kisses a bit of chocolate from my mouth. I'm not used to PDA of any kind, even though I love that he did it.

"You two are adorable together," Emily tells me as we walk out together.

"Thanks. I've had a crush on him for a long time, and he's finally coming around."

"I'm glad. He's completely smitten with you. I'm looking forward to us all getting together again at the C&C gala next month."

"Me too," I tell her, even though I don't know if I'll be invited.

I mean, I'm pretty sure I will by the Corrigans, but I'd like to be Guil's date. I think we're headed in that direction, but I don't know for sure. I don't seem to know anything for sure. Other than my crush is turning into so much more, and I can't wait to get him home for more.

# Chapter 4

Guil

I haven't been nervous around a woman for a lot of years, but I'm nervous with Lyla tonight. Maybe it's because she matters, when so many of the other women I've been with haven't. Or maybe I'm finally realizing what it's like to want more than sex. Then there's the fact that this was our first official date—double or not. Whatever it is, my hands are sweating as I drive us home.

Home. The place I used to hide out alone. A place to lie my head until Lyla came here yesterday. In one day, my house really does feel like home, and I'm trying hard not to analyze that too much.

"Do you want something to drink?" I ask once we're in the house again.

"Only you."

"You are definitely embracing your sexual side."

"Is that a problem?" she asks, and I see the flicker of uncertainty cross her eyes.

"Only in that I'm trying to be a gentleman with you, and take things slow," I say, placing my hands on her hips and pulling her close to me. "I want you to feel cherished and appreciated."

"Maybe I just need to feel wanted."

I thrust my hips against her, letting her feel how much I want her. "You are. I don't want you to doubt that when I'm around."

She slides her hands through my hair and pulls me to her, kissing me hard. This time, I'm the one who's backed up, pressed to the refrigerator. I let her take control for a few minutes, because I think she needs it—and let's face it, being kissed by her is no hardship.

Once our kisses start getting more intense, I place my hands under her ass and lift her up. Her legs immediately go around my waist as I carry her through the kitchen and up the stairs. I hesitate for a second at the top, trying to decide where to go. It's only a second, because I know in my heart that she belongs in my bed and nowhere else.

"Underwear stays on," I tell her, breaking our kiss.

"So, my bra can come off?" she asks, reaching behind her for the zipper to her dress.

"Lyla," I warn, my mouth going dry as her dress drops and she's standing in front of me in red lace.

"You're no fun."

I rip the last buttons from my shirt and drop my pants as she licks her lips. "The hell I'm not."

After that, we fall onto the bed in a mess of limbs and lips. I touch every inch of her and kiss all of her exposed skin. It's not enough. It will never be enough, but it has to be for right now. Tomorrow, I may not be able to hold onto my control, but for today, I will. No matter how hard it is—and I am.

Hours later, with the sun coming in through the window, I wake up wrapped in soft skin and red lace. Lyla slept with me all night, and more importantly, _I_ slept all night with her.

"Ooh, I'm like an octopus or something," she says, waking up and trying to disentangle herself from me.

"Or something," I say, placing my hand on her thigh to stop her from moving too far away.

"What time is it?"

"No clue. Got somewhere to be?"

"I was just planning on hanging around here, painting. The views are gorgeous. Especially down onto the beach."

"The view right here is pretty damn gorgeous too, so give me a little more time with you, yeah?"

"I think I can fit you in."

"Oh you will," I say before I can stop myself.

"Now?"

Shit. "You're really sure?"

"Yes."

Who am I to keep denying a sexy woman when she's already nearly naked in my bed?

"We're going to take it slow, and I'm going to eat you first to make sure you're ready."

"Are you expecting me to argue?"

"No, but I am expecting you to do what I say."

"Just in bed, right?"

"And the shower, floor, kitchen island, against the wall, the pool—you get the picture, Ly? Once is never going to be enough."

"Again, I'm not arguing. I didn't come here for one time."

No, she didn't, and that's why I should stop right now. There are too many secrets between us, too many things I'm hiding from her. But, I can't stop. I want this and so does she. Like the greedy bastard I am, I'm taking everything she has to offer—and more.

Lyla

The moment I've been waiting for is here, and it's better than I could've ever imagined. Guil turns me onto my back and climbs over me. I can see his cock straining against his boxer briefs and my panties get even wetter realizing he'll be inside of me soon.

He whispers sweet and sexy things to me as he places little kisses across my forehead, down my cheeks, and over my mouth. I moan when he sucks on my neck and licks my earlobe. This man's mouth is beyond amazing and it's nearly killing me to wait as he makes his journey down my body. Between his mouth and his goatee, I know my skin will be red all day, which makes this even hotter.

The shoulders he said he loves get attention as does my collarbone. One both arms and hands are shown some love, he leans back and looks at me.

"Take off your bra."

I don't hesitate to do what he says, reaching behind me to pull it off, despite knowing how bad I'm going to look with it off. Sleeping in an underwire when you've got big boobs means red marks, and lace marks, and just...yeah. I cover my chest, because it's embarrassing.

"I'm so sorry. I didn't think about how your bra might hurt you when I made you leave it on. I'll make them feel better, I promise."

A part of me wants to let him keep thinking I'm in pain, so he can follow up on his promise, but I know he's going to have his hands and mouth on me regardless, so I go with the truth. "They aren't hurt. It's just embarrassing for the first time you see them to have them all marked up. I want you to be turned on, and not repulsed."

"It would be impossible for me to be repulsed by you. Completely impossible. Now, move those hands so I can see."

My hands don't move as fast this time, but he waits. Looks me in the eye and waits for me to be brave enough to see more of my flaws. Another man might not wait for me like this when we were just in the throes of passion, but Guil does.

I close my eyes as I drop my hands, and within seconds one nipple is covered by a hot mouth while the other one is caressed by a warm hand. There is no other word to use for what he's doing than "worship" and I'm feeling it all over. He licks, sucks, and even bites all while I arch my back and get more aroused by the second.

"Damn, but these are perfect," he says holding one of my breasts in his two hands. "Almost two full handfuls. I can't wait to fuck them."

"Okay."

It's stupid, but it's all I can say right now. He can do that. I'd honestly let him do almost anything right now. I trust him.

"No, it's not. I promised I'd cherish you, and I will."

I want to argue, but he's moving down my body and his mouth makes me forget any objections I had. I don't feel like the curve of my stomach is a bad thing when he's kissing it. My hips don't feel big when he nibbles on them. And yeah, when he pulls my panties off and licks me right where I need him, nothing else matters.

Guil eats me like I'm the best thing he's ever tasted and it's a powerful feeling. As he murmurs against my skin and nudges my clit with his tongue, I feel like I'm leaving my body. I'm so wet I should be ashamed, but I'm not. I'm this bold new woman I don't recognize and I love her.

It only takes a few minutes of him playing with my clit before I'm screaming his name. He doesn't stop like I expected, sliding two fingers in me as I come. I don't know how my back doesn't break as I come again, because it's arched as far as it can go.

"Guil."

"A man knows how to find his woman's G-spot."

"Find it with your cock and I'll be even more impressed."

"I think you might just be ready for it, Ly."

"Yes."

At least I think I'm ready, before he slips on a condom and fills me with one thrust. I've never felt so full or so sexy before, and I come again as he starts to move slowly in and out of me.

"That's it. Keep coming for me. I love how it feels when you squeeze my cock. It makes you even tighter."

"So good. It's never been like this."

"No. It hasn't. You're perfect everywhere."

He says the words, and then he's coming too. It may have been fast but it was better than good, and I want it again. I want this man to live inside of me until I can't take anymore pleasure, and I know that's exactly what he's going to do.

# Chapter 5

Guil

It's been five days since I first made love to Lyla. There's no other way to describe it than that. I don't fuck her, or screw her—I make love to her. There's an urgency I can't stop from coming out, but it's still sweet. It's the only way I can have her.

I want to fuck her against the wall and tie her to my bed, but she's not like that, and it's okay. I'm coming just as hard as if I took _her_ hard. Okay, maybe not as hard, but I'm definitely satisfied. More satisfied than I've been in a long time, if ever. No other woman makes me feel like this, and because of it, the sex is better. It's different with her, because she's different—in the best way possible.

During the day, she paints while I do some actual work for Miles. The clients from the other night raved about me, and only want to work with me, so it's happening. That one lie has turned into a truth. One of the many, and yet, I can't stop myself from continuing on the path I've chosen. It has to be done, no matter what happens after.

Lyla and I share all of our meals together and we talk about anything and everything. And we make love. Often. So often I'm surprised we have the energy for anything else. Although I tend to feel invigorated after being with her, like some of her light has seeped into my dark soul.

I know what it is, even if I don't name it. I'm in a relationship and I'm falling in love with her. It's all going to come back to bite me in the ass, but this is what it is. Love. A love I want to hold onto, even though I know I can't. A love I know I've felt for longer than these five days, even if I never admitted it to myself before now. I need to tell her, but not yet. I can't do it yet.

Between my work for Miles, and my time with Lyla, I've still managed a few hours at the club every night. I don't tell her where I'm going and she doesn't question me about it, even though I can tell she wants to. I haven't touched another woman, but they've come close enough to me that I know their perfume lingers. I shower before I go to Lyla when I get home and neither of us talks about it, but I know it hurts her. I don't want to hurt her, and it will be over soon.

Calum's coming to town this weekend to interview the two candidates. Once we have a manager, I can step back like I have with all of the other clubs. I make a monthly—unannounced—check on a few of the clubs we have around the world, but I won't be in any of them regularly one this hiring has happened.

"Are you going out again tonight?" Lyla asks, coming into my office in her paint-splattered tank top and jeans.

"I have meetings, yes."

"Meetings."

She sounds resigned and unhappy. I should let it go, but I can't. "Is there something you want to say?"

"No."

We both know that's a lie, but I'm not going to push it—or her. She's embraced her sexuality and came here to me in Santa Barbara without warning, but the insecure girl is still lurking inside this amazing woman. I want to help her banish those insecurities, but I know she has to do it on her own. I can help, but I can't make them all go away for her. My magic wand doesn't work that way.

"Okay. I'm planning on making chicken for dinner if that works for you."

"I'm going out."

"Oh. I guess I'll just grab something before my meeting."

"You're not going to ask me where I'm going?" she asks, looking like she's going to burst into tears.

What the ever-loving fuck is going on? "No. Why would I?"

"We're together. You should want to know where I am."

"I trust you, Lyla. That means I don't worry about where you are or who you're with. If you want to tell me, fine. If not, that's also fine. Your choice."

"Men," she says, turning and storming from the room.

I should probably get up and follow her. That's what a good boyfriend would do. Boyfriend? Yeah, I'm her fucking boyfriend, and I need to make this better.

"Wait," I yell, bolting from my chair.

"Why should I?"

"I know my meetings bother you, but they'll be over soon. I promise. I just have some things I have to finish taking care of."

"Things or people?"

Is she serious? She honestly thinks I'd have the energy to be fucking other people after our daily sprints and marathons?

"Is there something you want to ask me?"

She shakes her head. "No, because I don't want the answer."

"I just told you I trust you, but you don't trust me." It's not a question, because what she just said was pretty clear.

"I want to, but how can I when you won't tell me where you're going?"

"Trust means I shouldn't have to tell you."

"Trust is also earned. You're not doing much to earn my trust."

Bullshit. I'm lying to her about things, but I've never given her any reason to not trust how I feel about her and what we're doing. I practically worship the ground she walks on, but it's just not enough. I don't know how to be enough.

"You're free to walk out the front door if you're not comfortable with our relationship."

"Is that what you want?" she asks, her eyes filling and her voice wobbly.

"Never. I never want you to leave. But, if you don't trust me, we have nothing."

"I want to," she says again.

"Then do it."

"I'm trying," she tells me and walks away from me again. This time, I don't follow her.

Lyla

I never even imagined I would be doing something like this. But, I don't know what else to do. Things with Guil have been strained since we had our argument. We still sleep in the same bed every night, and our bodies come together because we can't fight our attraction, but everything else is gone. The talks, the laughter—it's just gone. I won't take all of the blame, even though I know I pushed him, because he still comes home smelling like other women every night.

"Lyla? I must say I never expected to see you here," Calum tells me, walking into the room where I'm supposed to get fitted for some kind of anklet.

Yes, I'm in his sex club, because I fear I'm too boring for Guil. I don't actually want to have sex with someone else, but I need to learn some new tricks. Some things to keep Guil interested in me and not "meeting" with other women.

"I never expected to be here," I tell him honestly.

"You should go home."

"Do I not look okay?" I ask, pulling at the skirt of my outfit.

I'm in a red lace bodysuit with strategic strips of fabric covering the important parts, and a floor length "skirt" coming out from my hips. The material only covers the sides of my legs and nothing more, so my ass is on display from the thong in the back. I'm calling it a win that I know I look good instead of stressing about letting my flaws show.

"You look amazing, and I'm sure you'd get lots of offers, but I can't condone that. I don't judge what the majority of my patrons do, because that would be hypocritical and if they want to cheat or join in on some fun, that's all between them and God. You however, are sleeping with my best friend, and I won't be a party to you cheating on him."

"He comes home smelling like other women every night. Every night."

He closes his eyes. "Fuck."

"I need to be able to compete with whatever he's getting from someone else. I need him to only want me."

"He does."

"Just please let me go into the club."

"I'll let you go in, but only with a red anklet. You can watch it all, but I cannot allow anyone else to touch you tonight. If you decide to come back, I'll instruct my employees to let you wear whatever color you want."

"Thank you."

He mumbles something about not thanking him yet, but I don't pry. I just want to get the tips about how to make Guil crazy and get out. I'm too exposed and my emotions are too raw. Honestly, I'm thankful it's the red anklet he's putting on me now, because no matter what, I don't think I could be with anyone but Guil. Even if he's with other women besides me.

Calum leads me to the main door of the club, kisses me on the cheek, and wishes me luck. Once I'm inside, I realize why I'm going to need it—the first thing I see is Guil with a group of women surrounding him as he sits on a chair that looks like a throne.

# Chapter 6

Guil

I feel her before I see her, but I want to be wrong. When I hear a whispered "wow" from a man facing me, I know I'm not. Turning as I slowly rise to my feet, I'm met with a sight only I should see. No other man or woman should be looking at Lyla in that outfit. I probably don't deserve to see her in it, but no one else does either.

Forcing my eyes to hers, I see the tears I've once again put there, and it guts me. She shakes her head and turns to run, looking for an escape route. I take the opportunity to get my ass where it needs to be.

"I can explain," I say, stepping in front of her.

"At least I know where you've been."

"I can explain."

They seem to be the only words I'm capable of saying and I'm not sure they're enough, even though I want them to be. _Need_ them to be. I reach for her, but stop myself.

"You can't even touch me? Am I that repulsive to you?"

"No. I can't touch you. Not with that red anklet on you. And you know damn well how much I love being with you."

"What if I say you can touch me? And I _don't_ know. Why do you think I'm here? I was trying to find a way to be more exciting for you."

I shake my head. "We have strict rules here for a reason, Ly. If I didn't come in with you, I can't touch you when you're wearing red. Even if you say you've changed your mind. It's for your protection."

"You have red on."

"Yes, and I have since the day you kissed me. And you make me feel better than anyone else ever has."

"But you smell like them when you come home," she says, nodding toward the women who were standing around me.

"They lean close, hoping I'll take the bait. I swear to you I never have."

"Then why do you come here?"

I was hoping this could wait, but I know it can't. "This is my job. My _real_ job. I oversee all of the clubs around the world for Calum."

"But we went to dinner with George and Emily. For C&C."

"Yes. Miles asked me to help him out, even though the job wasn't supposed to be real. Since he was helping me out by letting me pretend to work for him, I did it. Now, the job _is_ real. I'm working with George for him."

"Why? Why did you lie about your job?"

"I didn't think you'd accept me if you knew I ran a bunch of sex clubs."

"I deserved that chance."

"I know."

"So what, you come here and watch all night? Do you get yourself off?" she asks, but then shakes her head. "No. You just get turned on and then come home to me. It's them turning you on, and not me. Oh God, I'm so stupid, thinking it was me who made you hot."

"I watch the employees and the patrons, because there's no manager at this location right now. Calum's helping me choose one tonight. And it's always you who gets me hot, Ly. Just you. I've become somewhat immune to all of this," I tell her, waving my hand behind me.

"What happens after the new manager is hired?"

"I stay home until it's time to do a surprise visit on one of the clubs. I try to do three or four a month."

"I came here to learn how to be more exciting to you. I need to know how to do that."

Did she not hear anything I said to her? "Jesus, Ly, if you were any more exciting, I'd probably die of a heart attack."

"I want to see everything." I hear the steel in her voice, and know she means it.

"Okay. Can we go out and link up so I can hold your hand in here? This entire place needs to know I'm the lucky bastard you want."

"Yes, but I'm only tying myself to you tonight. I'm still not sure what I'm going to do about all of this."

Shit. "I'll take whatever you're willing to give me."

Lyla

I'm putting on a brave front, while on the inside I'm trying to hold it together. I was having a hard enough time dealing with coming here in lingerie to get sex tips, and now Guil's telling me he's seen—and probably done—more stuff than I could even imagine.

"Back so soon?" Calum asks, smirking at Guil.

"This isn't a joke to her, so shut it."

"It's fine." None of this is fine, but what else can I say right now?

"Just link us up."

Calum's jaw literally drops open. "You're going back in?"

"Yes. She wants to see everything."

"Lyla?"

"I came here for a reason, Calum. That hasn't changed just because I have a little more information now."

"Um, okay. Sure. Let me grab the coder thingy."

"Coder thingy?" I ask, looking at Guil.

He shrugs. "We love the tech we use, but we don't really know what to call it all. The device he's getting is where the night's anklet info is stored. He'll use it to link our anklets."

"So you can touch me."

"Yes."

"I'm not going to have sex with you in there."

"No."

He says it so firmly, and with such finality, I can't help but be a little hurt and defensive. "You said you wanted them all to know I'm yours."

"Without a doubt."

"Then why not fuck me in there?"

"What we do is between us, Ly. If you really want to have sex with me in front of an audience, I'll do it. But, it won't be because I want it."

"I-I don't think I could do it in front of people."

"Good."

"You have."

"Yes."

"I want to see everything you've done."

"I'm not sure it's all going on, but we can look."

"How many women?"

"More than the number of men, but I honestly couldn't tell you."

"Men?"

"It's just sex. Sex is sex," Calum says, coming back into the room with a device in his hand. "Consenting adults are free to give and take pleasure here, and many times gender doesn't matter."

"I get it," I tell him, because I do. It doesn't change how I look at either of these men. If you're not in a relationship, sex really is just sex.

"You do?" Guil asks, looking truly bewildered.

"Yes. I don't care who you were with before me; I just want to be good enough to keep your interest now. Or at least that's what I wanted when I came her."

"That's not an issue."

"To me it is."

"You're all set," Calum tells us, trying to break the tension that's seeped back into the room.

"Thank you, Calum."

"You're welcome, Lyla. And I've made my choice, Guil. We can talk tomorrow."

"Great."

Guil

Nothing's great right now. Lyla doesn't believe she's enough, she's still in the lace outfit that shows off nearly everything, and now I'm supposed to walk her through the club. This night is going to end so well. All I can hope is that nothing else ends with it.

I hold out my hand to Lyla, and she takes it in her own. "If you become uncomfortable with any of this, just say the word and we're out of here."

"Okay."

Her voice is a little unsteady, letting me know she's not completely on-board with what she's chosen to do. But, like everything else lately, she's brave enough to try. Braver than me, that's for sure.

Once we're back in the main room, all eyes are on us. I don't blame anyone, because I've never come here exclusively with a woman before—and my woman is smoking hot. Lyla's hand tightens on mine as we walk through the crowd, so I pull her to me and kiss her sweetly on the lips.

"We don't have to do this."

"I need to see it. I need to see what I'm willing to do."

"If you're phrasing it that way, it'll never happen. I won't _allow_ it to happen. For us to do anything you see in here, it has to be because you want it, not because you're willing to do something for me. Something I promise you I don't need with you."

She searches my eyes, and a look of wonder comes over her face. "You really mean that, don't you?"

"Yes. I'm glad you're finally believing me. I can't get enough of you—I don't think I ever will. I don't need any of this with you. I never needed it for myself, if I'm being honest. I embraced this lifestyle, and enjoyed the hell out of it, but I don't need it in my life."

"I don't know that I'll ever come back here, so I do want to see it all now. Please."

"Anything you want."

I lead her to the windows at the front of the room, where various couples and groups are enjoying themselves in viewing rooms. There's a couple with the woman riding the man, a trio who are performing oral sex on each other, a gang fuck with a willing woman lying on the floor with her legs spread taking man after man, and finally a foursome making use of a couple of Saint Andrew's crosses.

"Wow," Lyla says when we get to that window.

She seems fascinated by the women being restrained on the cross while receiving their pleasure. One is faced forward, with her lover on his knees as he eats her pussy. The other is facing the cross as her man fucks her hard.

"Restraints can be fun."

"I want to try. With only you. Is that okay?"

Doesn't she know by now that I won't refuse her anything she wants? "Yes."

We move on to the orgy room, where she averts her eyes at some of what's going on, and looks turned on by other groupings. Our next stop at this location is the pool room. Pairs and groups are also getting it on here, but it's a more playful atmosphere. How could it not be with waterfalls, grottos, and even slides to play in and on?

"We could do that in your pool," she whispers to me, watching a couple sixty-nine under one of the small waterfalls.

"Anytime you want."

"I want to get out of here and do bad things with you. There's probably more to see, but I need you now."

"All we've skipped are the hardcore BDSM rooms, which I don't think you'd enjoy. There's one more thing I'd like to show you, but it'll just be the two of us in there."

"There are private rooms?"

"Just for me and Calum, but yes."

We added them to every club after Rhieve decided she liked being with Calum and watching others. I lead Lyla out of the main club and into a private elevator. When we reach the second floor, I take her to my room and use my handprint to open the door. Her eyes widen as she takes in the bed, the one-way glass floor looking down to the club and the cross in the corner.

"Please tie me to that. Oh God, I want it. I never knew I wanted it, but I do."

"Will you let me decide how we're doing it, or do you have a preference?"

"You decide."

"As much as I love this outfit, it has to come off."

"So does your suit."

"No."

"Excuse me?"

"It'll come off, just not yet."

"I don't have a say in that?"

"If you really want me to take my clothes off, I will." I'd rather wait, but this isn't going to be a deal breaker.

"No. I trust you. No matter what I said, I do."

She shouldn't, but I'm a greedy bastard, so I'm going to take what she's offering and run with it. I'm going to run fast and far, hoping the rest of my secrets won't catch up to me just yet.

# Chapter 7

Lyla

Peeling my lingerie off while Guil is still fully clothed and watching me should be unnerving, but it's not. He's had his hands and mouth on every inch of me so there's no surprises in store for him. I can be bold and brave with him, and it's one of the reasons I love him. I may still be annoyed with him after finding him here, but I believe him when he says he hasn't been with anyone else.

"So fucking beautiful," he says when I'm standing in front of him in just my own skin.

"Thank you."

"How long do you think you can stay upside down?"

"Huh?"

He leads me to the cross—which looks more like an X—and attaches my wrists and ankles, before strapping a leather band over my stomach. I watch him do it, waiting for him to say more and tell me what he's thinking.

"I want to spin you upside down so we can sixty-nine while you're restrained."

"I can't touch you."

"Exactly."

"But you won't fit in my mouth."

"Relax your throat and take me in. I know you can do it."

I'm glad he knows it, because I'm not so sure. I'm definitely going to try, because I know this is going to be hot. "Okay."

He leaves me upright while he frees his cock from his pants. He's still fully dressed and I can admit it turns me on to see him like that while I'm naked. After several minutes of kisses, he steps back, presses a button, spins me so I'm upside down, lifts the cross to the perfect height, and then presses another button to lock me in place.

The anticipation nearly kills me as I wait for him to close those few inches between us and get us what we both need. I feel a little lightheaded, but I know I'll forget about that once we come together.

Guil stands in front of me and runs his fingers over my lips. I open them as he takes his cock in hand, feeding it to me inch by inch. When I don't think I can take anymore, his mouth zeroes in on my clit and I swallow hard, bringing him down my throat. It's not what I'm used to, but nothing with this man is. Relaxing my throat and breathing through my nose seem to be working well.

We start a combined rhythm, one where he thrusts slowly in and out of my mouth while licking and sucking me into oblivion. I guess it's really his rhythm since I can't move much, but I still feel like an active participant.

I love the taste and feel of him in my mouth, but I love his mouth on me even more. He's not restrained, so he can pump his fingers in me and run them over my hard nipples. The pleasure I'm feeling is beyond anything I've felt before, and I know without a doubt it has to do with me being restrained. Although I'm an active participant in this show, I'm also at the mercy of the man in front of me. It's fantastic and I don't want it to stop, although I feel my orgasm barreling towards me.

When it hits me a minute later, I scream around the hard cock in my mouth and move as much as my restraints will allow. I feel like I could black out, but he hasn't come yet, and after that orgasm he just gave me, there's no way I'm not giving back. I want him just as crazy as I am.

I suck harder as he thrusts in, and lick the underside as he pulls out, feeling him grow even harder. When his hand moves from my breast to pump the base, which his other one is petting my pussy, I go over the edge again and this time he joins me. I swallow down everything he gives me, wanting all of it and more. Wanting everything he has to give.

After a few moments, he steps back and turns me upright, dropping to his knees in front of me. There's no way I can possibly come again after those two orgasms, and I let him know it.

"I can't."

"You can. You will. I need a few minutes to recover and then I'm taking you to the bed in the corner and owning your sweet pussy again. Until then, you're going to keep coming on my mouth and fingers."

Who am I to argue with that? This man has pushed me past so many boundaries already, and I'm ready and willing to break through the barrier to more. So much more.

Three orgasms later, he frees me and carries me to his bed. As I lie there, sated and barely able to move, he undresses slowly. It's like I'm watching the best gift ever get unwrapped. Abs, pecs, v-cuts, thighs, calves, ass, and yeah, that cock I can't get enough of.

"You up for riding me?"

"Always."

"Good."

He puts on a condom, and pulls me on top of him as he lies down. "I don't think I can do much more than what we just did."

"Don't care. I just need to be inside of you. Nothing more."

I believe him, and not just because of the string of curses he lets out when my pussy slides down his shaft. I move the way he knows I love and nothing else matters. Nothing but us.

Guil

Waking up in Lyla's arms is hands-down the best part of my day. Yeah, the sex is phenomenal and work is great, but knowing she's going to be there when I open my eyes is the best feeling ever. Which is why I'm freaking out a little when I wake up alone.

What we did at the club last night was intense. Having her on the spinning cross and then riding us both to the edge of madness after—it was everything. Everything I thought we both wanted, but now she's not here.

I go to her "room", thinking maybe she's painting, or grabbing more clothes to fill my closet with. All I find are canvases stacked against the wall. They're beautiful and so good I'd have to fight strangers for them if she ever decided to sell them. But, no Lyla. My panic escalates when I go downstairs and see a piece of paper on the kitchen island. I don't even want to look at it, but I know I have to.

_Guil,_

_I have to go home. My parents have called a board meeting and they need me there. I haven't left yet, because I can't bear the thought of not saying good-bye to you. I'm down at the beach, trying to muster the strength to go leave._

_Lyla_

I race out of the house and down the small incline to my private stretch of the beach. Lyla's wrapped in a blanket with a mug in her hand. I know it's hot chocolate and I also know it used to be topped by a more than healthy serving of whipped cream. That's the way she loves it and it's fucking adorable. The cold doesn't register with me until I'm almost to her, making me realize I ran out in nothing more than my boxer briefs. Oh well, that's the least of my worries right now.

"Ly?"

"Hey," she says, turning to me.

Tear stains streak down her cheeks, and I pull her to me. "Talk to me."

"I don't even know what we're voting on. I have Brad's votes now too, so I'm the majority because Gramps left it to us that way, but I always just do what my parents tell me to. This time, there seems to be more of a sense of urgency to the vote and I don't want to just do as I'm told."

"Do you want me to go with you?"

"Would you?"

"Of course."

"I don't suppose you'd want to vote for me?"

She's joking, but I'm not when I answer. "I can do that."

"Really?"

I'm going to rot in Hell for this, but I made my choice before I let myself fall in love with her, and I need to stick to it. The plan has to work or my promises to Brad are worth nothing.

"Yes. You know I'd do anything for you."

"Thank you. You're okay to leave the club for a day or two?"

"Calum hired the new manager last night, so yes. He's still in town anyway, so it wouldn't be a problem for him to oversee a night or two."

"You don't know how much I appreciate this."

I pull her to me, because I can't look her in the eyes right now. "It's really not a problem at all. I had to proxy for him once before, so I have the legal documents on my computer. I can just change your name and the company name on them. Then, we'll just need to get the papers notarized."

"Great," she says, and her smile isn't tight right now. It's real and it's killing me, because this may be one of the last times I see it.

# Chapter 8

Lyla

I feel like one of the biggest weights ever has been lifted off my shoulders. I hate voting in the board meetings, because no one ever wants to tell me anything—or give me the time I need to look over whatever it is we're voting on. They just expect me to vote the way they want me to. Guil is fast on his feet, and he knows the business world, so I trust him to do this for me.

Once he's packed a bag and we've stopped by the bank to have the papers he printed out notarized, we're on the road to Newport. He's driving his Bugatti today, because we both agreed throwing his money around is the right choice with my family.

Don't get me wrong, they're not all bad, just ignorant of the world around them sometimes. They live within their own little bubble, with the same friends they've had for years, and the same thoughts about life as well. "If it ain't broke, why fix it" is their reasoning as to why they're living like it's still the 1980s. Brad and I never fit into their mold, but I pretended to. My brother never did, and I sometimes wonder if his recklessness cost him his life. It's something I've been avoiding asking Guil about, but I promise myself I will once this is all over.

"Don't worry, I've got this handled," he tells me, reaching over to take my hand in his as he battles the crush of Southern California traffic.

"I know."

"Are you sure? You seem to be thinking pretty hard over there."

"Just a lot to think about."

"Do you need a sounding board?"

"Not yet. I will soon, but right now, I just want to focus on this meeting. My parents aren't going to be happy with my wardrobe choice," I tell him, looking down at my short black dress with a white design over the top. It's loose on top and bottom with a tapered waist.

"You look stunning, as always."

"Thanks, but I'm usually in a power suit my mother's picked out for me, or something ultra-feminine."

"I'm glad you're dressing for yourself."

"So am I, but I know there will be comments. They're also going to give you a hard time, you know. Just because they welcome you into our home doesn't mean they're going to be okay with you voting for me."

"We're going to present a united front. The shares are yours, and there's nothing they can do about you choosing me."

"You're trying to be logical about people who value power over logic."

"I'm pretty powerful."

"That you are," I agree.

I'm counting on his power to get us through this. Not just the meeting, but going public with our relationship as well. My parents tolerate him, because of his wealth and status, but they have told me time and again to stay away from him. Mostly because of his friendship with Calum. Both of them have hidden his connection to the clubs from everyone, but he's still been "tainted" by association. They aren't going to welcome us with open arms, but I don't need them to. All I need is him by my side.

"Lyla," my mother exclaims when I walk into the conference room. She starts to walk toward me, but stops short when she sees I'm not alone. "Guil?"

"Hello."

My father walks up, a condescending look on his face. "This is a private board meeting. If you need to talk to us, we can set up a time later today. You really should've called."

"He's here to vote for me," I tell them.

"No."

"Yes. Lyla and I signed the papers before we came here."

"You can't vote for her! Not in this."

"Why not this?" I ask, confused.

"He's too connected to this," my mother answers.

"It has something to do with Corrigan & Co.?"

"What? No. Why would you think that?"

"It's where he works."

My father eyes him shrewdly, looking for any sign of weakness. Guil just stares back at him, his eyes like ice. I feel like there's more going on here, but I don't know what it could be. My father is the first to break the silence strung tight between them.

"You know what this vote is, don't you?"

"I do."

"And you manipulated my daughter into giving you control so you could stop it."

What? What is he talking about. "Guil?" I ask, but he ignores me, his eyes still on my father.

"You didn't really think Calum would sit back and allow you to try and come for his company did you? Or that I would allow it?"

"What?" I ask, completely blindsided. This is about Calum's company? Has all of this been about helping his friend? Was all of what I thought we shared just a lie? A manipulation to protect Calum and his business from my family? When Guil can't look me in the eyes, I have my answer.

Guil

I can't look at Lyla right now. Not when I know she's going to be feeling betrayed, pissed, hurt—all of it. I deserve her anger, but it kills me to know I hurt her. I knew it was coming and I can't say I was powerless to stop it, but I chose not to. When your childhood best friend asks you as he's dying to make sure your other best friend is protected, you do what you have to do. Even if that means using the woman you've fallen in love with to make it happen.

"Take back your votes right now, Lyla," her father bellows.

"I don't know that I can."

"You can," I tell her.

I had to give her that out. No matter what was at stake and the promises I'd made, I had to give her the chance to destroy all of my plans. I couldn't live with myself if I didn't. Her brother would forgive me and I'm pretty sure Calum will as well if she goes that route. I'm hoping she won't.

"Why give me the chance when you knew this would all come out?"

"Because you deserve to always make your own choices."

"What do I need to do to make that happen?"

Shit. I honestly thought she'd trust me, and not take me up on my offer. "Just say the words."

"I want my vote back."

"It's yours."

"Get out," her father repeats, and I do as he says.

I have no choice, but I need to know she's going to talk to me when this is over—that she'll let me explain.

"Lyla."

"Goodbye, Guil."

The finality in her voice slays me, but I know it's my own fault. I walk out, hitting my speed dial for Calum as I make my way to the elevator. When he answers, he speaks before I have a chance to.

"It fell apart, didn't it?"

"She's voting her own shares as we speak. I was asked to leave."

"We knew this was a possibility."

"I'm sorry. I fucked it all up."

"You had two promises to keep, and they counteracted each other. There was never going to be a way for you to give Lyla a chance _and_ to save my company from an attack."

"If I'd only been smarter and just used her."

"It would've been worse if you'd just done that."

"I'm pretty sure she thinks I did."

"But, you didn't. And as for the company, let them come if she's angry enough to vote with them. I've been expecting them and I'm not going down without a fight."

"I'm right there with you."

"I'm going to head back to Vegas to talk to Matt. I'll see you there?"

"Yes. I have the unfinished business Reina's helping me with and I think I might take Miles up on the offer of an office at C&C."

"Good. I trust the managers we have at the clubs and I don't think your working for him will interfere with the consulting for me."

"If it did, you know I'd choose you."

"Damn straight. Talk to you soon, brother."

"Yep."

I hang up and take a seat in the lobby. I don't know how long the meeting's going to last, but I need to see Lyla. No matter where we're at or what's going to happen with us in the future, I need to talk to her. If only to tell her my feelings for her are real.

Lyla

"Are we ready to vote?" the Chairman of the Board asks after skimming over the proposal I know everyone else was clued into before the meeting.

Everyone nods and I manage to do it along with them, even though I feel like I'm going to throw up. Hearing them talk about Calum's company and what they want to do to it makes me realize why Guil needed to save it. I'm pissed and hurt, but I get it. I just wish he'd trusted me enough to tell me what was going on.

The voting goes around the table and my father smiles when it's my turn. "All you have to do is say 'aye' to make this official."

"Nay."

The room erupts as I say the word, but I don't care. It's the right choice and the only one I could make and still live with myself. I will not sit by and let my grandfather's company be used to hurt someone else, just because society doesn't like the other business he owns. And that's what this is—a witch hunt for Calum because of his clubs.

"You know Guil used you, manipulated you. How could you do this to us after that?"

"What happened with Guil is between me and him. As for this, how could I not vote against it? The plan you've put forth is completely ridiculous."

"You will not live under my roof and talk to me this way."

"I was already planning to move out. I love you, but I won't live the way you do, looking down on anyone who doesn't meet your expectations."

I walk out before anyone says more to me. This meeting and all that happened were beyond emotionally draining, and I'm done. Just completely done.

Which means I'm not at my best when I spot Guil waiting in the lobby. I want to punch him and kiss him, and just make him tell me I was more than just a vote.

I knew going into this I had an uphill battle. He always saw me as the kid sister of his friend, and never as more. I thought he was finally seeing me, but I don't know. It's the not knowing that's killing me now, but I'm afraid to ask for the truth. If he says what I want, can I believe him? And if he says it was all I lie, could I survive it? For the moment, ignorance is bliss.

"I voted against the plan. You can go now."

"I'm not waiting here to talk about the vote. I want to talk about us."

I have to stay strong. "There is no 'us' any longer. If there ever was."

"There was. My feelings for you have never been a lie."

"What exactly are those feelings?"

"You know I love you."

"Do I? How would I know when you've never told me?"

"I thought you knew. I thought I was showing you."

"I didn't. I don't."

"I love you. I'll say the words as often as you need me to."

My heart wants to soar, but my head keeps it in check. "I wish I believed you, because I love you too. But, you _do_ know that, and you still did this to me."

"What I did in regard to the vote had nothing to do with my feelings for you."

"Really? Because I'm pretty sure you used _my_ feelings to steal my vote from me."

"If I was doing that, I wouldn't have given you a way out in the paperwork."

"Is that going to make you sleep well tonight? Knowing you gave me a choice I might never have known about?"

"You could've read the papers."

He did not just go there. But yeah, he did. "Goodbye Guil. Have a nice life."

I turn and walk outside before he can say another word to me. I'm done being manipulated but the people who supposedly love me. Just done.

# Chapter 9

Guil

I rode my bike to Vegas, because I needed the speed and the release. I've got a home here and more cars, but I don't care about any of them. I lost what was most important, because I didn't let Lyla know how important she truly was to me— _is_ to me. I'll work on a plan for that, just not right now. Now, I need to focus on work and revenge, because one of those two things is a vow I made with her present, and she needs to see me being a man who honors his vows.

"Have a seat, Guil," Reina tells me as I walk into her office.

I take the one next to Rhieve, smiling at my friend, and hoping they have good news for me. I didn't promise Brad I would find the person who had him killed, but I vowed to do it when he died in my arms. It was no accident or random act of violence. I know that deep within my soul.

"What did you find?"

"Something I wasn't expecting, and I was genuinely shocked. That doesn't happen very often."

"I would guess not."

"It's the people you had dinner with, the ones Miles asked you to meet," Rhieve tells me.

"George and Emily?"

"Yes."

"I am completely confused over here."

"So were we, until we dug a little further. George was apparently an old school friend of Calum's father. He invested in the original company with an agreement to be co-CEO, but got into some financial trouble and asked to be bought out when the company began to make money. That was before it became a billion-dollar business. My would-be father-in-law, may he rest in Hell, cut him off and wouldn't even take meetings with him when he wanted to come back. Calum taking over after his death just poured more salt in the wound."

"What did Brad have to do with that?"

"George is the one behind his family's takeover attempt. He's also friends with that family and put the idea into their heads."

"And he coincidentally got courted by Miles to do business with C&C?"

Reina answers me this time. "He used his influence to have the right people put him on Miles' radar once Brad was out of the picture. He knew Calum was close to us and had to make sure we weren't going to intervene. We would've if it came to that. Matt already had plans to fight and I have enough info on everyone to knock them right off their plan."

"And then that bastard sat at dinner with me and Lyla. After killing her brother. I could've killed him right then and there."

"He was sure her parents would convince her to vote with them until you brought her to that dinner. He asked to work with you so he could keep you close. Now, he's in a tailspin and we don't know what he'll try next. But, I do know you're not going to kill him. You will let us deal with him."

I look away from her, but we both know I came to her for a reason and I will indeed let the Society deal with George. "They're supposed to be at the gala this weekend."

"Yes."

"How's this going to go down?"

"They're going to disappear from the party, but we need your help—and Lyla's."

"I'm in, but she's not speaking to me right now."

"With good reason," Rhieve reminds me, pinning me with a glare. "What you and Calum did was horrible."

"I'm well aware of that, and so is he."

She smirks. "Sleeping in the guest room is driving it home for him."

"Savage. Withholding sex from your man," I tell her, shaking my head.

"Who said I was withholding sex? I'm not going to punish myself while I'm punishing him. He just has to sleep in there."

"Why didn't I think of that when I was pissed at Matt? I'm totally stealing that by the way. And, we need to tell everyone," Reina informs her, a wicked smile on her face.

Just damn. "Ganging up on the men, huh?"

"Look, they have their little Studkateer group with meetings and whatever the fuck else they do. I know they plot against us, so turnabout's fair play."

"Touché."

"Back to business. Rhieve, can you reach out to Lyla?"

"Yes."

They fill me in on the plan, and I have to admit it's a good one. Not that I'm surprised; you don't run the most powerful private spy network in the world by coming up with bad plans. Still, it's good to know they have my back and will protect Lyla too. I just hope she listens to Rhieve and agrees to help.

Lyla

I wanted to tell Rhieve no when she called and asked me to lunch, but I'm also curious to see what she wants. So, here I am at the famous C&C cafeteria, designing my own my pizza before joining her in one of the little private dining rooms she's snagged for us.

"Thanks for meeting me."

"I'm not sure I should, but I wanted to hear what you had to say. And, I don't think anyone turns down an invite to eat here."

She smiles and gives an affirming nod. "Calum and Guil both know they did something wrong, and I can honestly tell you I would've put a stop to it if I'd known."

"I appreciate it."

"That being said, I believe Guil really cares for you. I'm not here to ask you to give him another chance to prove it to you, but I thought you should know."

"Okay."

She shakes her head and smiles. "You're tougher than I once believed you to be."

"Coming from the woman who defied everything she knew to be with the man she loves, I'll take that as a high compliment."

"Good, because it was meant to be."

"What did you ask me here for, if not to champion Guil?"

"I need your help. _We_ need your help."

"With something here?"

"Kind of. The Foundation does more than just what the public sees. Sometimes we right the wrongs of evil people, and sometimes we avenge our friends. Or our friends' friends."

I sit up straighter. "This is about Brad."

"Yes."

"Whatever it is, I'll do it."

"Even if it involves Guil?"

"Even then."

She explains the plan, and I'm both shocked and angry by what she reveals. I believe my parents knew nothing about what was going to happen to Brad, but George—George is going to pay for what he did. I won't rest until he does.

"You'll need a dress."

"I have dresses."

"You need one that will bring a man to his knees."

"George?"

"Guil."

"I don't need him on his knees." She raises one eyebrow at me. "Okay fine. I'd _like_ him to grovel a little."

"He will. Count on it. And Stella will have something perfect to help get him there."

"Stella? I get to eat here _and_ get styled by her? Maybe I should apply for a job."

"You don't need one to come here and visit once in awhile, but we'd be happy to take a donation."

"Done."

We finish lunch and then I'm riding with her in the elevator. It's surreal, especially when she reminds me I can't tell anyone about what's really going on here. Like I would.

"Can we still be friends if I don't work things out with Guil?"

"Absolutely. Are you thinking of moving here?"

"It's an option. I'm not sure what I want to do, but I have time and money, so I won't be rushing into anything."

"We have plenty of programs you can volunteer with. My friends here are awesome, and I think you'd fit right in with the group."

"I'd like that."

I would. Even more so after Stella finds me a dress that makes me feel like the bombshell Guil told me I was. Hearing it from her and Rhieve makes it a little more real. I know I need to accept myself before I can accept anyone else's view of me, and I'm getting there. Slowly, but I'm moving in the right direction.

# Chapter 10

Guil

If I thought I was nervous on that first "date" with Lyla, I'm a fucking wreck tonight. I haven't seen her since Newport and while I know she's on-board with this plan, I also know she's nowhere near on-board with giving me—us—another chance.

We have to show up together, so I'm picking her up at her hotel. I'd rather have her staying with me, but beggars can't be choosers—and I'm definitely going to be begging. When she opens the door to her room at the Delano, my eyes nearly roll back in my head.

Her blue dress hugs her curves like it loves them almost as much as I do. The deep V is covered in sheer fabric, there are straps that are partially off her shoulders and then more sheer fabric covering most of her arms. Crystal encrusted heels cover her feet and intricate diamond earrings hang off her ears. I could die a happy man right now, just from looking at her.

"I-I. Wow. Just fucking wow, Ly."

"I clean up pretty well, huh?"

I shake my head. "You're just as stunning when you're covered in paint. Every way you are is simply gorgeous."

"You mean that."

"I do."

"Thank you."

She lets me take her hand and lead her to the Mandalay Bay which is connected to her hotel. I'm positive Reina and Matt chose this hotel on purpose, because of the tragedy that recently occurred. They want to show the world they won't be scared, and that Vegas _is_ strong. For us, we need to pretend to be strong and together.

"There they are," she whispers to me, making it look like we're sharing something private as cameras click around us at the door.

I turn to nuzzle her neck and kiss her collarbone, knowing she'll let me for the cameras, but probably won't let me later. It's an asshole move, but I can't help myself. She runs her hand over my shoulder and lifts my face to hers. The smile on her face is real, surprising me.

"We're going to talk once this is over. I've loved you for too long to just walk away."

"Thank God."

"Let's do this."

I squeeze her hand harder and walk us over to the couple who are trying to hide their shock at seeing us together. All part of the plan.

"It's great to see you," Emily tells us, air-kissing Lyla. Now that I know what I do, I see how fake her greeting is.

"How's it going, George? I haven't heard from you this week."

"I've just been busy, Guil."

"Of course."

"I'd heard a rumor that the two of you had a falling out."

"I think everyone in a relationship has their ups and downs," Lyla tells him, wrapping herself into my side as I stroke her hip.

"Yes, well, we have to mingle, but we'll talk soon."

Sooner than he thinks, but he doesn't know that yet. "Great."

"I wanted to punch her. She knows. I could tell she knows. And him—he needs to die."

"You can't say things like that and expect me not to kiss you."

"You can kiss me all you want right now. It might be your only chance."

"I thought we were going to talk."

"We are. Talk, not kiss. Or anything else. I'm not going to just forgive you because I understand what you were doing. You knew it would destroy me when I found out what you had planned, but you did it anyway."

"I did," I say, taking ownership for everything I've done. We would have absolutely no chance of moving forward if I wasn't willing to do that.

"Kiss me."

I lean down and do exactly what we both want me to do. I've missed the feel of her lips, the taste of her tongue, and the bite of her teeth. Missed them because she feels so right. She feels like the one place I've always belonged.

"I hate to intrude, but we've got to take our seats," Rhieve says from behind me.

I pull my lips from Lyla's, but lean my forehead against hers for just a moment. "I love you."

"I love you too."

Lyla

I _do_ love him, and I do want to get back together with him, but I'm not going to make it easy. I have too much self-respect for that. Tonight, I have the freedom to kiss him and hold his hand without expectations, so yeah, I'm taking advantage of that.

The looks on George and Emily's faces when they realizing they've been seated with us, Calum and Rhieve, and Miles and his wife Alex, nearly makes me burst out laughing. I hold it in and just smile sweetly at them.

"Oh wow, how nice that we all get to sit together."

"Yes, it's nice," Emily says.

Miles and Calum aren't playing the same game Guil and I are, so they don't have to hide their glares. The ice in their eyes is so cold, I swear the temperature in the room has dropped at least ten degrees. As I let out a shiver, Guil pulls me close.

"Are you cold, Ly? You can have my jacket."

"Stop being romantic," I hiss back to him, the smile still on my face.

"Not possible with you."

I close my eyes, allowing myself to revel in his words for just a moment. One brief moment where I can pretend this is all still real. That we'll be going home together and making love all night. Just one moment before I open my eyes and continue on with the plan.

"Have you bid on anything yet, Emily?"

"No. I was going to eat and then have a look. It's more fun to see where the bids are late in the party."

"I'm going to look too, so we can go together."

"Okay."

"Don't go giving away our savings," George tells her with a smile that doesn't reach his eyes.

"Do you even have savings?" Calum asks him, leaning back in his chair with a smirk on his face. I kind of love him a little right now.

"How dare you?"

"Very easily."

"I'm interested in you answering the question," Miles tells him.

"I won't sit here and be insulted."

"Suit yourself, but if you walk away from this table, our business ties are severed."

"I never wanted to work with you anyway."

"I know."

George stills and looks around the table. His eyes land on Guil, who smiles. "Give the guy a break. He just doesn't want to talk about his finances with us right now. Let's enjoy the party."

If I didn't know him so well. I'd believe everything he just said. But, I _do_ know him, and I know being nice to the man who killed my brother is making him insane. I reach over to squeeze his thigh, reminding him I'm right here having the same thoughts.

"Thank you, Guil. I'm glad one of you knows how to act."

He nods, but says nothing more. Dinner is a tense affair, which is exactly what we planned for it to be. We need them on edge.

"Ready to go look at the offerings?" I ask, once dessert has been cleared.

Dancing will begin soon, so this is the time I've been told to get her away from the crowd. Until tonight, I'd hoped she was an innocent bystander in everything, but the looks I've seen on her face and the vibes shooting off her tell me she was in on it.

She exchanges a look with George before standing. "Sure."

I walk with her toward the tables, but stop before we make it all the way there. "Oh, would you mind a quick stop in the ladies room?"

"Not at all."

I walk her into the specific bathroom I was instructed to take her, where Reina's waiting for us. "Great job Lyla, we'll take it from here."

"What's going on?" Emily asks, turning to find Faith standing behind her.

"You killed my brother, bitch," I say, punching her as hard as I can. It hurts like hell, but I'm glad I did it.

It takes her to the floor and her eyes are wide when she looks up at me. "You should've just done your part, because you're next."

"No she's not," Reina tells her.

I have to apologize for what I did. "I know that was off the plan, but I had to."

"No one's going to see her again so it doesn't matter. Good hit, by the way," Faith tells me.

I walk out to find Guil leaving the men's room, his knuckles split. "You hit him."

"And you hit her," he says, taking my bruise

"I couldn't help it."

"Neither could I."

"We did it."

"Yeah. I'm going to leave now. I'll talk to you soon."

# Chapter 11

Guil

My version of "soon" is obviously different from Lyla's because it's been over a week since the gala and she still hasn't reached out. Being the bastard I am, I haven't left her alone, but we haven't talked.

I've sent breakfast to her room every morning, alternating between the different dishes I know she likes. I also had painting supplies sent to her suite. I don't know if she's used them, but I wanted her to have that option available to her.

I also had her paintings shipped from my house to my place here in Vegas. Most of them now grace my walls there, but my favorite beach scene is on the wall behind my desk here at C&C. Everyone wants to know where I got it, but I refuse to tell them because I don't know if she'd want me to.

My intercom buzzes and I answer, knowing it's Miles. We've developed a great working relationship and I love my job here. He's got an excellent team already, and I pretty much just help each of them with anything they're stuck on. It's a dream job for me.

"You've got a visitor," is all he says, before my door starts to open. WTF?

My heart is in my throat when I see Lyla standing in the doorway. Her eyes go to me, then narrow when she sees the painting above my desk.

"That's mine."

"Yes."

"I didn't say you could have it."

"I know."

"Why is it here?"

"Because I needed a piece of you here with me. The rest are on the walls in my house here."

"What if I want them back?"

"Do you?"

"No. Seeing you have them is making me realize even more that being here is the right choice."

_Please let her be choosing me. Us. A future._

"Do you want to sit down?"

She shakes her head. "No. I just want you to tell me when you fell in love with me."

I don't hesitate to answer her. "When you were sixteen. You didn't want a big party, but you let your parents throw you one anyway. You wore a ridiculous dress, but after the guests left, you changed into jeans and a t-shirt. You kept the heels and the tiara, but the make-up was gone and you climbed on the roof with me and Brad to eat more cake."

"I smashed the cake into your face. I wanted to lick it off you, but I was too scared to do it."

"I wanted you to. I'd been attracted to you for a couple of years, but that night I knew it was more. I saw the smile lighting up your face and how happy you were to be with just us, and I knew. I loved you. I didn't think I could ever act on it, but I knew it was true."

"I wish I'd known. I was so scared to ever let you see how I felt about you."

"I saw."

"My birthday's next week."

"Yes."

"Rhieve wants to throw me a party."

"So would I. I wanted to have our friends over to my place."

"Can she help?"

"If that's what you want?"

"I do. I want to have it at our house."

"Are you moving in?" I ask, so shocked she could knock me over with a feather right now.

"Yes."

"You didn't ask."

"Do I need to?"

"Nope."

"I'm sorry I made you wait so long."

"I would've waited forever."

"I've been talking to Reina about doing art classes for the people they help."

"You'd be amazing at that."

"I think so and so does she."

"Because she's a smart woman."

"You can't lie to me again. Not like the way you did."

"I won't. I swear it."

"You always keep your promises."

"I do."

"My brother made you promise to stop the deal. You should've told me."

"I should've."

"Thank you for honoring his wishes, and avenging his death."

"You never have to thank me for that."

"My parents reached out. They got an anonymous letter detailing what George and Emily did."

"You've reconciled?"

"No. They still think I should've taken their side in the vote. I love them, but we'll never really get along."

"I'm sorry."

"It is what it is. Are you going to kiss me now?"

"I was thinking I'd feed you first."

"You've been feeding me every morning. Right now, I want a kiss. Then, you can take me to the cafeteria."

"Bossy."

"Is that a problem?"

"Never."

Lyla

He takes me in his arms and kisses me. I've missed this, but I couldn't make it too easy on him. Couldn't let him think what he did was okay. I know he didn't, but I had to make sure he understood how hard it was for me to take a chance. And then, have to take a chance again.

As he lifts me onto his desk and pulls my dress over my head, I moan loudly. "You missed this."

"Don't look so smug—you know you've missed it too."

"I did. Let's make a pact to never go so long without making love again. My cock's been weeping for you."

"Weeping? Tears or cum?"

"Dirty girl, you know the cum's only for you."

"Give it all to me. Everything you've got," I tell him, lying back on the desk.

He does all of that and more. It's actually dinner time before we make it to the cafeteria and both of us are having trouble walking by then. We re-fuel before heading home to start all over again. Seeing my paintings on his—our—walls turns me on and I give him the blow job of his life before he takes me again. I'm never denying myself of this man again.

# Epilogue

Guil

I've been given a gift. A second-chance with Lyla. I won't blow it this time.

"This party is insane," Calum says, coming to stand next to me as our women sit with their friends.

"Like I wasn't going to go all out for my woman."

"Unicorns?"

"It's what she always wanted, but her parents wouldn't let her have."

"We are _so_ whipped."

"And we both love it."

"True that."

Lyla runs over and jumps into my arms a minute later. "Thank you for this."

"This is only the beginning, Ly. I'm going to be spoiling you for the rest of our lives."

"Promise?"

"Promise."

# Coming Soon

**Look for X's book, _Essential Company_ , coming on February 6!**

# Acknowledgments

**Dominique, and Gabi, you are the two sides of my heart!**

* * *

**Helen Williams, thanks for another amazing cover!**

* * *

**Alesha and Guil, my life is so much better for having you in it! Thanks for letting me borrow your name for a character, Guil, even if I did have to look at pictures of another guy when I wrote this book 😊**

* * *

**To all my readers, all over the world, thanks for reading all the books, even though you may not love all the characters! You stick with me through all the different women and men and I appreciate it more than you'll ever know!**

# About the Author

Crystal Perkins has always been a big reader, but she never thought she would write her own book, until she sat down and did it one day. She lives in Las Vegas, where you can find her running author events when she isn't reading, buying too many Sherlock t-shirts and anything Wonder Woman, or finding a place to put all of her Pop! figurines. In 2016, she won the Creative Initiatives Award from Romantic Times for encouraging literacy, and also the Community Advocate Award from the Clark County School Librarians Association. A mac and cheese connoisseur, she travels the country looking for the perfect version, while attending book conventions and signings as a cover for her research. The Griffin Brothers, Corrigan & Co., and the Society Girls series are all international best sellers, and she's thankful to the readers who made that happen.

* * *

Find her here:

www.crystalperkinsauthor.com

facebook.com/crystalperkinsauthor

@wondermomlv
