

We lived in a small town called Kitty where we cropped and made our own food, we were one of the few lands not corrupted by all the politics. My name is Beth I am no typical girl I have Hazel Green eyes with Light brown long curly hair, I live with my family with a brother named Ramos, My father John and my loving mother Annabeth, we have our own farm and the cattle count is strong, every now and then we went to town to get things for the house, we do not get out much so when we went we all went along, the education we receive was thought to us by mom and dad and it was mostly based on running the farm. It is the year 19 March 1990 I have just turned 17 and having some sort of birthday I guess, my mom and dad invited their friends to come and enjoy the birthday and as always there children came along, but I was the eldest among them so playing was not in my book of having fun. But as the people started to arrive I looked up and my eyes caught him my mouth fell open, I started to feel warm just by looking at him I never saw him in my life and no one even knew who he was, he was well build not like the farm boys we have here. His black hair nicely cut his eyes Safire blue it's as if he is looking into my soul, he looked gorgeous his clothes was perfectly fitted to him, then all of a sudden I realised that I am so under dressed for my own party, "what must I do, I did not look like the catch" "if you know what I mean" he walked over to me, took my hand and kissed it "happy birthday Beth I will be waiting for you when you turn 18". He turned around said goodbye and left.

I have never seen him and I did not even ask him for his name, but he knew mine. "What is this I will be waiting for you when you turn 18?" Day's - Weeks - Months passed and there was no sign of him what so ever, I was starting to think it was all a dream and that I will never see my knight in shining armour again. 10 Months have passed and I have forgotten him. I have convinced myself it was all a dream and that my life must go on, on the 19 January 1991 I was busy in my room when my dad called for us and said we must get the money we were going to town, we ran to our rooms, dressed up and got in the car, the town was almost 30 min drive from where we lived.

When we got to town we saw lots of people running around screaming and shouting my dad jumped out of the car instructing us to stay put, he ran towards the people shouting he tried to find out what was going on, he ran to one of his mates and asked him what all the fuss was about "They are coming, get out of here!" and then he ran away shouting and screaming at the people, I knew something was wrong and that my dad would find out what is going on, then out of nowhere an army of terrorists arrived hitting and shooting people they caught and locked up all of us in the town demanding the bank to pay them ransom money or we all would die. We were held captive in a cell, they did not do us any harm they fed us once a day and we had to drink out of the kettle's crib. I's been two months now and the bank refuses to pay these terrorists. Tomorrow is my birthday and this is how I will be spending my 18th Birthday. We went to sleep, I think I slept 3 Hours at the most when I felt someone touch and gently squeezing my shoulder just enough to wake me, I looked up and there he was on one knee he picked me up in his strong arms, he looked me in the eyes and said "Happy birthday Beth I came for you" I leaned on his muscular chest threw my arms around him and squeezed so hard as I could to make sure he won't leave me again, he stood up with me in his arms looking into my eyes with his beautiful blue eyes and asked "do you trust me" he was not finished asking and I already knew what I would say "YES".

He told me to close my eyes but I wanted to know how we would get out of this prison "we are locked in", he looked at me and said "trust me Beth, close your eyes" I did. I felt helpless and secure my knight in shining armour came for me he rescued me, I started to feel sleepy I tried to fight it but I was too tired, we only slept 3 hours a day in the prison I could not fight it anymore and let go, I fell asleep in my knights arms.

As I woke up I started to look at my surroundings "WOW" I think I slept forever and I must be in heaven, the room walls is so smooth and clean no cracks and no marks, the carpet is white and a thick layer so soft. Lying backwards and enjoying the comfort of the red silky fabric over my body it gave me an arousing feeling everything felt so soft and silky then a teasing feeling, I have never felt something like it in my life, we do not know this kind of fabric and this must be Heaven, I could smell the flowers outside and hear the birds chirp – chirp and singing, the air smelt so fresh, as I was laid back enjoying all this I turned on my side and noticed next to me a gown made out of silky fabric, I wanted to put it on but the feeling would not be the same with all my clothes on so I decided to put it on naked but where would I undress, "o I know under the sheets", I started to undress my blouse and bra, as I was busy undressing my clothes the linen rubbed against my right breast sliding over my nipple and none too soon it was as hard as it gets the feeling was amazing I wanted more so I quickly undressed my blouse and bra lying under the linen with only my pants on rubbing the linen all over my breasts, neck and shoulders I got goose bumps and the teasing feeling got aroused even more, I started to get curious what if I laid totally naked under the sheets, so I started to slide my pants down followed by my panty I could feel the sensational feeling running in my body, I laid down flat on my back rubbing the linen all over my body with legs wide open sliding it over my virgin vagina, I started to feel hot and wet "what is this feeling" I have never felt this feeling but knew I had to continue and touch it, I softly pushed the linen onto my vagina and rubbed it against my clit it felt good, too good the noises came naturally out of my mouth and that made me wanted to stick my finger in, my vagina was so wet the linen started to get soggy but that did not change the feeling I started to press the linen into my vagina with my finger in and out in and out, this felt astonishingly good, with my other hand I rubbed the sheets over my breasts, squeezing my nipples and sliding the sheets over toughing my neck then it happened the feeling I have never felt before as if my whole body was going to explode with desire and erogenous I shouted as the pleasure passed through my body I could not go on but did not want to stop, I came for the first time an orgasm like no other, I felt out of breath and my body was twitching with pleasure having contractions as the last bit of fluid exited my body it was wet all around me, some of it was cum and other was sensational sweat released by my body.

As I laid back I started to laugh purely due to fulfilment and the experience I just went through, it was awesome and wanted more and more, then someone knocked on the door, I shot straight up as a bullet and realised I have no clothes on, "where was my clothes" I must have threw them off when I was busy on the bed, so I grabbed the gown and quickly put it on.

With a somewhat scared voice I said "ok you can come in now", and then he entered carrying a tray with breakfast, coffee, orange juice and a bright freshly picked red rose. "Good morning Beth you look good in that gown, did you sleep well?" I stood idle and could not get a word out it was no dream I am neither dead nor in heaven. He walked up to me placed the tray next to the bed and took my hand we sat down on the bed "Beth you are the one and thank you for trusting in me". He stood up kissed my hand and said "when you are finish eating there are clothes in the closet pick something everything is yours and come enjoy me downstairs".

As I was sitting I asked myself "did he hear me while I was busy", o no what was he thinking of me, how will I look him in the eye's. I felt hungry, we did not really eat anything the past 2 months in prison so I dug into the food, it was delicious some of these food I've never even tasted the coffee was a little bit warm but the orange juice did not even have time to touch on the way down, only after I have eaten I saw the knife and fork next to the plate I was so hungry I did not even use them, I drank the coffee burning my mouth here and there too eager to taste it, the aroma of the coffee was strong and made me feel as if I have energy again. I jumped up after eating and I started to dance and sing out of joy just the knowledge that my knight in shining armour is real, I went straight to the closet opened it "this must be a mistake, I think I am in another room", a closet this big full of so many clothes of different shapes, sizes and colours it can't be this must be another room or a clothing store, after an hour I guess, I picked a dress, went to the bathroom "this must also be another room" the bathroom is as big as my room on the farm.

I opened the warm water and the water was instantaneously warm not like on the farm where you have to boil the water, I made myself a bath full of water and added something called bubble bath "that made a bit of a mess", the water was enough to swim in I suppose, I saw that the bathroom had allot of mirrors, so as any lady should do is look at herself from all angles. After admiring myself I climbed into the bath the bubbles were up to my chin it felt strange but my body felt relaxed and soothing, I laid back and closed my eyes thinking of my knight, I did not even know his name but yet I am in his house, just the feeling of waking up to see my Knight made me realize that I could surrender myself to him, the feeling of thinking of him gave me the urge to pursue myself down under I slowly grasped the bubbles and squeezed it against my breasts rubbing it and pinching my nipples I started yawning as the pain became pleasure, I knew what to do and slit my one hand under the water gently touching my virgin vagina squeezing my vagina lips working myself inwards to the mysterious hole, slowly moving it in and out I started to see him in my mind as I imagine how he was licking and kissing me on my clit, as the picture became more clear the pleasure became more vibrant and sensitive as the orgasm approached I started to scream out of pure pleasure and then my orgasm erupted I could feel I was losing control over my body as it twitched, almost drowning myself out of pure pleasure release, I thought to myself "if only it was my knight."

After I finished my warm and wet bath I put on the dress, it looked stunning, I looked like a Princess. In the bathroom cupboard there was a letter addressed to me reading: "My dear Beth, Everything in the closet and bathroom is for you, do not hesitate to use any. PS: Enjoy." After reading the letter I knew that I am here to stay. I started to open every cupboard and inspecting the contents, some of the things I did not even know , I found make up "that is what's written on the case" I tried over and over applying this make up but every time I apply it I looked like a clown. I sat down out of frustration with myself, "how will I make myself look good in this dress if I do not even know how this stuff works?" Then I got up removed the clothes put it back in the closet and put on my old ones, "yes that looks better" I thought to myself. I cleaned the room and bathroom and was ready to go down......

I knew that he had to be rich to afford this luxurious place; my room was as big as our whole farm house. As I approached the door I could notice the detail embedded into the door with a gold handle on a massive black door, as I opened the door it made no noise as if this door was inspected every day, the sight was marvellous on the outside of my room, the stairs was purl white with a gold hand rail leading all the way down, next to my room was another room but the door was closed, I started to walk down the stairs admiring the look of the chandeliers hanging from the ceiling the lights were all crystals shining bright, as I approached the end of the stairs I started to feel unsure of what to find, I saw a long couch with a Fireplace with wood burning in it, it felt warm in that area. The kitchen was on the left hand side of the room and on the right hand side was the study I guess.

My knight was not there, I decided to explore the house. It was like nothing I have ever seen in my life it was massive, big enough to be a mall in our small town, I wanted to see how it looked outside but all the doors leading outside were locked. I went back to the Fireplace and sat on the couch I enjoyed the heat coming out from the fire place and then I heard something from the room upstairs and could see the door opening. My knight have arrived and was on this way down the stairs, I started to feel uncomfortable he was neatly dressed in a black suit perfectly made for him his tie was bright purple with black thin stripes on perfectly matching his look, he had a 5 o'clock beard but looked sexy on him, his shoes was pointy and shining polished black. He walked up to me and said "thank you for coming down, did you not find something you like in the closet?" I replied almost instantaneously "No, I did thank you" he looked at me, smiled and said "you do not have to be scared, I will fill your closed with whatever you like, just name it" I couldn't help it and started giggling, he grabbed my hand pulled me closer and asked me "is there anything I can do for you Beth?" "Yes, please tell me you name, I want to know my Knights name" I replied. He took a step backwards still holding my hand, and said "I am Sir Dimitri Belikov Drake the 4th at your service" and kissed my hand, "but you can call me Drake" he added.

I wanted to know more about Drake where does he come from and what does he do for a living.

"Please to meet you Drake thank you for saving me" he acknowledged by bowing his head "the pleasure was all mine". He turned around and walked away as he walked he stopped turned around and said "We are having lunch" but "no but's put on the dress you were wearing later on and I will send someone to help you with makeup and do your hair. "Thank you". We were going out for lunch out of the house I can't hardly wait, then it struck me, how does he know about the dress and the makeup problem, was he spying on me, o no he saw all the orgasms as well. I ran upstairs to my room shut the door and started to look at all the places where I think there could be a hole to spy on me, but I could not find any. I took everything with me into the closet and dressed there, while dressing I thought to myself he already saw everything, why hide. I had a bright idea I would give him a show he would never forget and when I hear something then I will know where he is peeping at me, just as I stepped out of the closet to give him the huge performance.

I had a bright idea I would give him a show he would never forget and when I hear something then I will know where he is peeping at me, just as I stepped out of the closet to give him the huge performance.

There stood a neatly dressed lady outside the closet "hi there I am Rosaria Silver the 5th, Master Drake instructed me to do your makeup and hair for you, you can call me Lady Silver", my own maid doing my hair and makeup, this was my first and this was going to get awesome, I asked Lady Silver more about Drake but she did not want to discuss him with me so I asked her to tell me more about her "what do you do working for Drake?" "Well I do anything Master Drake ask of me" ok that was not the answer I was expecting but none the less so I asked her for how long she have been working for Drake "for a long time My Empress", then I almost had a mini heart attack "what did you call me" "Please my Empress Beth I did not mean bad, I like working for Master Drake" I saw the fear in her eyes when she thought I was cross with her, I calmed her down and assured that I was not cross with her and asked her why she called me Empress and she replied "you will become the new Empress if Master Drake asks for your hand" then I realised I was in a Kingdom and about to become the Empress with an Emperor on the Throne. But I was only 18 Years old and I do not know anything about ruling or any of the rules, I would be a bad Empress I "Lady Silver, why me? "Master Drake chose you when you were born he has been waiting for you to turn 18." So I was chosen by his father Sir Drake the 3rd. I knew I needed answers from him so I would ask him over lunch, Lady Silver knew what she was doing and I must say I looked gorgeous Drake would not recognize me, as soon as I put on the dress Lady Silver Bowed before me and said "Master Drake will Like", she left the room and shut the door behind her. I walked to the mirror and stared at myself trying to look for something, I couldn't see anything that would make me special to others in becoming the Empress.

The clock struck 12h00 and it was lunch time and some answers to collect, I shook myself together. I walked down the stairs feeling sexy and elegant in these clothes and makeup, as I reached the last step Drake was there to collect my hand, he took me to the dining room where the table was set out for 2 with red wine and a feast most would kill for. He pulled my chair out for me, as I sat he pushed the chair in making me comfortable, pored me some wine and walked over to his plate. He sat down and looked in my eyes and said "Yes". "What do you mean yes" I asked, "Yes you will become the Empress if you give me your hand". He poured himself wine and said that I could ask him questions once we have finished dining. The food was delicious and the wine sweet and tingly, once we finished he picked up his chair moved closer to me and sat down, took my hand and said "you are the one, do not look for it, it's in front of you".

I wanted to ask him why but was too happy to be here in his presence, he leaned towards me and said he would be mine and once I decided so I will be his. He did not kiss me on the lips and neither did it feel as if he forced me into anything, I leaned towards him wishing he could kiss me, but nothing I could feel the warm breath over my lips I could feel him kissing me, then I said "kiss me please", he placed his strong hand behind my neck and kissed me softly I grabbed him behind his neck pulling him into my lips so that I could feel every little detail on his lips it felt as if my world stopped, I felt the warmth feeling all over my body, arousing tingling sensation ran up and down my spine as we kissed, I wanted this never to stop it felt so right.

As I opened my eyes I saw that he was looking at me, we froze, he smiled and we stopped kissing he pulled away and said "In due time". He stood up and said "tonight we will have dinner" he turned around and walked up the stairs. This was starting to get awkward and we never had a decent conversation with each other, so I ran up after him calling him "Drake stop" he stopped and asked me how he can assist me, "well we have to start talking I have so many questions for you" he looked at me with a smile walked up to me and said "let's talk at the fire place room I will be with you in a short while", I ran up and fetched my pillow in my room and ran down to the fire place, Drake was already there with some 'Hot Chocolate' I have never tasted chocolate made warm, it was a first. The fireplace was nice and warm sending out a relaxing feeling, I sat on the one side of the couch and he was sitting on the opposite side still dressed as neat as it gets. As I sat there he did not take his eyes of me I could see he cared and I got the warm feeling of love booming out of those Safire Blue eyes. I started to ask questions why me? "You are pure and have the bloodline of the Schlotterstein, and the only survived Schlotterstein bloodline, the last strong bloodline died a week before your Birth", "but what about my family, there are more bloodline" I asked, "No you are the only surviving Bloodline" so that meant that my family was no more. He touched my leg and held it while we talked.

So what, does this mean I am royal blood? "Yes and No you are pure because the bloodline runs strong in your veins, My Ancestors slaved a dragon that attacked you Ancestors Kingdom and your family the Schlotterstein's duked my Family name as Drake meaning the Dragon Slayer, they gave us half the land and Kingdome until the people realised. I was shocked he was right when he said at lunch table "you are the one, do not look for it, it's in front of you", now I knew what he meant it's me it's in my blood. "Why did you take so long to fetch me I could have been killed in the prison?" "No, I was there the whole time guarding you", "and my family what about them?", "they were not chosen you were, at birth." I was getting frustrated this house would be big enough for my whole family. I knew he meant well but he could have saved them to, I was cross with him and jumped up, he leaned towards me and said "I know this is hard on you but please understand, you are the one." I shouted at him yelling "I do not want to be the one" while running upstairs.

I ran to my room shut the door and jumped on the bed crying, purely due to the fact that I am living in such luxurious place and my family is dead. A knock on the door was heard; I kept quiet until there was silence I removed the dress and put on my old clothes feeling guilty. I laid there thinking and wondering what to do. All of this is too much Emperor, Empress, Kingdom, Throne and now Dragons what else is there to know, I hugged the pillow and cried myself to sleep. When I woke up I experienced the same feeling as I did in the first day and knew I had to release some of this pressure put on top of me so I went to the bathroom opened the water and made bubbles with some bubble bath, I climbed in the bath closed my eyes, I saw him again but only this time his picture in my head was more clearer than the first time, I could feel his kiss on my lips it was so real as if he was there. I started to feel the need to touch myself but what if he was looking at me at this moment, what he will think of me when he sees this.

I stopped and climbed out of the bath, I started to dry myself still thinking of his kiss on my lips, he made me feel complete I wanted to be mad at him but could not, I am still alive and have a second chance in life I owed it to my family and the family blood I had to forgive and forget. It was late and I could not sleep Drake was just next door and I wanted to talk to him and apologise for my behaviour early today. But "should I go or not" that was the question I was struggling with. I laid there thinking and thinking, I stood up and walked out of the room towards Drake's door the warmth was gone, and now I started to doubt if I should go, as I stood in front of the large black shining door wondering, is he sleeping or perhaps busy with something. Then all of a sudden the door opened Drake exited his room close the door behind him and he took my hand, walking down the stairs leading me to the study room, he switched the lights on and closed the door behind us, he sat down behind the table taking a book from his library collection, placed the book in front of me "once I have your hand the book is yours to read and in the book you will find all the answers you seek.

I knew this would be a giant step to marry Drake but I needed to know the answers to my questions. "But when will he ask for my hand" I wondered, he looked so calm and positive of me being there, "Drake, when will you ask for my hand" I asked him not trying to force him into anything. He stood idle and said "in due time my Beth" smiling bent over and kissed me on the lips i grabbed him behind the neck opened my eyes looked him in the eyes and he gave me a slight wink. I pulled him away and said more please more, he leaned over and stuck his tongue in my mouth, I moved away and asked what was that, he replied "French kiss" I know I pulled my face and replied "are we in France" he laugh and pulled me in for more Kissing, the feeling was something new and I was game to learn more from my Drake, the feeling of sharing our fluids with one another wanted me to start touching myself while kissing him, I had a feeling in my stomach I could not explain, he placed his one hand on my upper leg as he squeezed my leg I wanted him to move more upper on my leg close to my vaginal area but he stood firm in his grasp on my leg. I started to touch his muscular body sliding my hands over his broad well defined muscular shoulders as I moved to his chest, he stopped me and said "when your hand is mine". I was confused, I wanted him and knew he had something of mine in his pants and I wanted it, but I had to wait for it until the time was right.

He stood up and said "get ready it's almost dinner time, meet me downstairs in 30min" and walked upstairs in his room and shut the door behind him, I watched him go in and close the door, I waited a minute and moved towards the study room I wanted the book, I wanted to know what is going on and what happened, as I got closer to the door Lady Silver came out of the study room and closing the door behind her. I knew that now was not the perfect time to try taking the book. I turned around and went to my room, on passing Lady Silver she asked if she can do her the honour of applying my makeup and to do my hair. "Thank you Lady Silver I will appreciate it" I still was not so sure how the makeup works and the extra company would be nice.

It was awfully quit when Silver did my makeup and hair; I think she was scared to say anything after our last experience. After she was finished she bowed in front of me and said "Empress you look very pretty for the Dinner". I said thank you and bowed to her to, I was not sure if I must but I did it anyway out of respect. After I was finished I went down and found Drake waiting for me at the last step as always as if he was waiting just for me, "o I'm sorry was I long" "No my Beth time is no essence when you are here, I'd rather be late than arrive without you."

I was flourished by the way he handled me at times always made me feel special, as I wanted to walk to the dining room he pulled me towards the front door and said "tonight we are going to dine with some friends" I was so excited I wanted to see how the Kingdome looked, but as soon as we walked out I could not see much, it was dark and I saw the something I have never in my life seen, a car parked outside, it looked like 3 cars in one, it was a long black customised limo, the door was open and the driver was waiting inside the limo, Drake stood at the door letting me climb in first, as I got in the limo, I could not believe the space inside the limo it was huge.

Inside it was n bit darkish with lights on the side panels of the inside, the driver was separated with a dark tinted window, Drake followed and sat at the opposite side of the limo looking straight at me. Smiling and asked "comfortable" "yes thank you". The door was closed and we drove off, I could not see anything through the windows we just felt the driver driving, then the silence was broken when Drake said "just be yourself at dinner", Drake looked stunning it was as if all his cloths was specially made just for him. I could see glimpses of him while we were driven to the dinner, I could see his 5 o'clock beard shadow matching his strong jawline his eyes bright blue was the most visible as if it was shining bright blue in the dark. We stopped and I knew we have arrived at the dinner reservation. The door was opened by one of the door assistants at the Reservation, as we got out everybody bowed to our arrival it felt somewhat strange but nice to be appreciated by others, as we entered I noticed this was no ordinary Reservation and that everybody knew Drake, he had his own table in the corner at the table where 5 people were waiting for us, he turned to me and said "don't be nervous they won't bite" we walked to the table he introduced me as Beth the last descendent of the Schlotterstein family the other people were introduced as Lioncourt th 9th, Dashkov the 11th, Devereux the 6th, Varn the 2nd and Archambault the 5th, everybody stood up and bowed to me saying it was an honour meeting me and that my ancestors was great Emperors, I was cared for as if we already were married, it was awesome and I liked the feeling of being dined, we danced and we had an amazing time I felt at home, time was flying so fast as we were having fun. The dinner was done and we left for home, where ever that was. As we drove home I went and sat next to him slightly seeing his face but clearly seeing his eyes as he looked at me, I asked him "do you love me or is it only because I am Schlotterstein blood?" he touched my cheek and whispered in my ear "from the moment you first opened your eyes I have loved you". Then we grabbed each other and started kissing with great passion and this time I did not hold back I wanted him all over and inside of me and I wanted him now, I felt the build-up of lust and passion wanting to come out but he refused to let me in, he wanted my hand first "as soon as you give me your hand I will turn your world around", "what was wrong, was he hiding something from me" I wondered.

I think I might have torn his shirt and broke some of his buttons out of urge and the eagerness to get inside his clothes, I could not take this anymore and took off all my clothing in the limo and pushed my hand out and said "here is my hand take it", he took my clothes and started to dress me only saying "I want you, but only when your hand is mine" I could not believe it, I made a total fool out of myself. We stopped at the house, as he opened the door jumped out and ran inside the house straight to my room shutting the door closed behind me. As I was lying on the bed a knock on the door was heard "come in" Drake entered the room still wearing his torn up shirt, I could see his muscular body underneath his clothes trying to get out, he was solid hard and could only imagine what awaits me down under, not sharing to much only the hump in his pants could be seen, he sat next to me staring to the ceiling, he turned on his side resting on his hand, the bulking bicep could be seen it looked as if it was about to torn the sleeve. I admired his perfectly shaped body and asked "Drake when will you ask for my hand" he smiled and said "if you want, tomorrow" "YES" I shouted out of happiness, he stood up and said with a slight blush on his face "Beth Schlotterstein tomorrow your hand will be mine" "my surname is Mitchell" I said while he walked out.

I jumped on the bed; finally I am going to get married to Drake, My Drake, Master Drake or Emperor Drake! Lots of stuff needed to be done there will not be enough time for all the arrangements, I ran outside my room and called out load "Lady Silver, please come to my room!"

Lady Silver arrived at my room with 5 people all of them ready to make my perfect wedding dress for tomorrow Drake already told them that the marriage will be done tomorrow. The other people were working hard for the wedding to be perfect; he was very precise and adamant that every small detail be done to perfection and to his specification, everything happened so quick, swift and with no hassle, within 8 Hours everything was in order and in place, knew Drake was a good leader by the way he organized and planned everything. He was strong in mind and physically strong, everything a good Emperor should have.

The wedding would be held outside in the dark outside the house at 8H00pm.

I have never seen the outside of the house as it was dark yesterday when we left for the dinner reservation. I went to sleep all was in order and my dream dress was made within no more than 2 hours, if only my family could witness this day I thought to myself, I snuggle into bed to sleep. I woke up the next morning knowing this is my wedding day; I jumped up and ran to the closet to see if the dress was still there , it looked even more gorgeous the second time. I poured myself a warm bath and took the shaving cream and rubbed my whole body, I started to shave my arms legs and then I looked at my vaginal area covered by hair and decided to shave it off as well, something I have never done before, after I have shaven the hair of my vaginal area it looked so small and silky smooth I could see ever curve on my vagina and started to rub over it enjoying the silk smooth feeling it started to get wet my nipples automatically stood stiff I put on my silky fabric gown just to get the silky feeling all over my body, it was sensational and the feeling of my shaven vagina made my knees weak forcing me onto the ground lying flat on my back I closed my eyes, I could see Drake over me with his large well defined muscular body kissing me I touched my breasts using my gown to get the silk feeling on my breasts, as I force my finger in and out tickling my clit trying to prolong the orgasm, I notice the sounds coming out of my mouth breathing hard, I shut my eyes hard focussing on Drake kissing and imagine him putting his finger into my wet soggy vagina, I could feel the orgasm creeping up and I started to curl out of pleasure, needles and pins shooting all over my body as the orgasm erupt trying not to scream biting my bottom lip. It squirted out everywhere on the floor no stopping it, I had to clean the bathroom floor and take another bath to clean myself.

I knew after tonight I would get the full of Drake and could hardly wait.........

1 hour to go before the wedding all the quests have already arrived on time, everybody knew how strict Drake was on time and arrangements no body went against him and his word.

10 min to the wedding, Lady Silver came in my room and gave me some advice as there were no one else I knew, she did not once looked me in the eyes she looked down out of respect I guess, she kept on calling me, my Empress Beth. I knew I had to get used to the phrase sooner or later. I could hear the music, it was time for the wedding Lady Silver left my room and it was up to me to change my whole life. I closed my eyes and saw my prize, it was Drake, I opened my eyes and started to walk down the stairs, no one was in the house everybody was outside awaiting my arrival, for the first time the door leading to the garden was open, a red carpet was laid out for me covert of red and white rose leaves leading me to the chapel where my Knight awaited me. There were a lot of guests it looked like hundreds of them; all of their eyes were on me. The wedding theme was red and white, the trees were covered with red decorations and the chairs were white, everybody was dressed in red and white. I Looked forward and saw my knight he was glooming and nicely dresses as always he was wearing only black matching his black shining hair his eyes was as clear as daylight, as I approached the chapel I started to hesitate if I wanted to go through with it, "what if I make wrong choices as their Empress" I started asking myself. Then Drake walked up to me collected me halfway and looked me straight in the eyes he said out load in front of everyone "Beth Mitchell Schlotterstein the 1st, I Love You". I knew then I wanted to marry him today and not a day later.

We walked to the chapel, total silence I could hear the crushing sound as we stepped onto the rose leaves on the red carpet.

The chapel was positions in the middle as if it was a stadium the chairs surrounded the chapel as we passed each row the space was closed by guests, there were no turning back now, then we eventually arrived at the chapel there were no priest or anything only the book. I saw the book Drake showed me in the library.

"Well Beth Mitchell Schlotterstein the 1st here we are"

He picked up the book and a needle, he asked for my hand, "Wow, Drake what's going on with the needle?" I asked "Beth only the true blood of Schlotterstein can open this book" he replied.

"Will you give me your hand?" I gave him my hand, and he pinched my finger, a drop of blood dropped onto the book, the silence was awkward, everybody gazed at the book and on their edges of their seats then a sound was heard, a sound of a lock being opened. Everybody stood up and yelled "all hail Beth Mitchell Schlotterstein the 1st, Empress of Emperor Dimitri Belikov Drake the 4th!"

He looked at me and said "our bloodlines have united again" I looked at him and out of disordered asked "is it over, are we married now?" He smiled and said "you are now mine and I am yours until death do you part from me". He handed me the book and said "it is now yours", we had a hell of a party everybody were enjoying themselves, we danced, I danced with the guests, everything went smooth and everybody appeared happy and approved the marriage. Drake was awesome and by far the best looking man there. I could not believe it, I am married to the Emperor, I was curious of what was written in the book but it had to wait, the wedding festivities ended late, Drake escorted everybody to their cars and I accompanied him, I felt tired Drake carried me to my room as the Groom should, I could feel his strong body grasping me, I felt so secure in his arms, he put me down on the bed and sat next to me, he kissed me and whispered into my ear "please rest, tomorrow you can read the book" he stood up and walked out. He stopped in the door passage turned around and said "I Love You Beth" and blew a kiss.

I could not sleep I was to curious of what was written in the book, I grabbed the book it was heavy and looked very old, I started reading it, I did not even finished the first page when my eyes started to burn, I wanted to shut it for only a minute, but fell asleep.

I woke up to the fresh smell of strong coffee next to my bed, Drake was standing next to the bed looking down at me and asked "did you sleep well Beth?" as he bent over to me to give me a kiss I grabbed him and pulled him onto the bed next to me, we started to kiss with great passion he was sliding his strong and powerful hands over the side of my body, it felt like winter as the goose bumps shot up and down my body, it felt good, I did not hesitated and started to thorn open his shirt exposing his muscular chest and fully developed abdominals and expansive shoulders, I started to flow my hands all over the curves and admired his well-defined sculpted upper body, he started to kiss me on the my collarbone and neck while undressing me, I only had my silky gown on, I did not want to make it difficult for him to exposed my body, he started to touch my breasts licking my neck and slowly working his mouth to my shoulders, he pinched my left nipple while squeezing my right breast with his powerful left hand it felt even better when he did it and I wanted more, I pressed my breasts against his body wanting to make skin contact, the kissing became more intense as we went on, he started to fiddle with my panty and I knew he wanted in I submitted myself to him laying backwards spreading my arms and legs out he started to kiss my breasts and nibbling at my nipple it was arousing and he started to make noises as if he wanted me to release and let go, I did, I started to yawn out of pure pleasure, I could feel his warm breath over my damp nipple where he was nibbling he looked up at me smiled and continued, he stuck his and under my back and pressed picked my body up so to touch his body, I wanted more but he was taking his time, I felt the urge to grasp at him but wanted this feeling to continue so I did nothing just lying there enjoying every moment of pure pleasure given to me by Drake. I grasped onto the silky linen, it touched my pulse area on my hands, and I knew my body was so sensitively activated by Drake's actions, he started to move downwards to my naval area kissing my stomach and biting me here and there, the nibbling turned to soft biting, the pain was quickly turned into pleasure and rough was what I wanted, he kissed my panty line slowly pulling it downwards, he kissed me just above the vagina area, I felt so assured about him It was possible to erupt as he kissed me with his one hand removed from my back and placed on my panty line slowly sliding it in the groove and the other firmly on my breast still squeezing on my nipple, his tongue licking at the slit at the top of my vaginal area, het started to bite at my panty like a beast trying to take its prey, het torn if right off, I laid there with no clothes on naked and fully exposed before him, his one hand leaving my breast and joining his other hand he started to massage my vagina lips and clit, I wanted to scream out of pleasure I have not experienced this feeling as yet, he gently moved his mouth over my clitoral area and started to lick and suck at it, my toes started to curl up and I started to grasp his hair with both hands wanting to pull his mouth away but also wanting to force him onto it then I grabbed the pillow pulled it over my head and started to scream out load, I had to release some of the pressure build up inside, he mover on hands finger gently inside of me, in and out in and out, I realised this was not going to take long and then out of nowhere my orgasm arrived my legs shut closed out of my body's own movement but he continued until he could see I could take no more. I was so wet I needed a towel to dry myself he moved upwards kissing and biting me softly up to my neck. Then het bit me in the neck but this time it was painful, I almost slapped him. I laid there helpless and my knees and body were numb cause of the orgasm I just had.

He stood up smiled and said "as soon as you have cleaned yourself please read the book." He left my room with no shirt on, his back was massive and it had humps on them he was really well build for an Emperor. I stood up after regaining control of my body, I took a bath and went to the closet to choose the perfect dress for an Empress, as I came out of the closet Lady Silver was busy cleaning my room, when she saw me she bowed down and kissed my feet, to took a step backward and to told her to stop, she stopped and said "thank you Empress" she walked out of my room and closed the door, that was an unfamiliar feeling and a bit strange, but did not quite understand the reason and the rules of this kingdom, but the book would tell me more so I grabbed the book and sat on the bed.

I opened the book and this is what was written in it:

I grabbed the book and sat on the bed. I opened the book and this is what was written in it:

"400BC an Empire was ruled by the Schlotterstein family they were powerful by mortal rule not by Immortal realm power, Dragons born in Dungeon's threatened the Empire, hundreds and thousands of warriors and soldiers died trying to defend the Empire but to no triumph, the Emperor knew that this Dragons could only be stopped by the Realm Leaders the Immortals, so himself set out on a quest to find the only surviving Realm Leader "Vladislaus Count Dracula" he could find no trace of him so he went to the Realm Gate Keepers to ask for this Dracula, they knew who he was Sir Maximus Schlotterstein the 2nd, "Dracula was on a quest to take over the whole of France and strengthening his own Empire" was the response from the Gate Keepers. "What makes you so sure Dracula will help you?" they knew why he was there and what he wanted he knew he had to make the offer worthwhile so he said "half my Empire and the hand in my Bloodline" The Gate Keepers looked at each other and said "Bloodlines unite Mortal and Immortal" the Emperor had one condition "Yes, but on one condition no Mortal to be turned into an Immortal from the Schlotterstein family", that was his condition. Dracula accepted the offer; he slayed the Dragon and burned down the breeding Dungeon. The Empire were saved, the Emperor knew the people of the kingdom would not agree on the hand in his bloodline and half the Empire if they knew it was Vladislaus Count Dracula, so he duked Dracula as Emperor Count Drake the 1st the Dragon slayer, the people were happy, Emperor Drake receiver his hand in the bloodline by marrying Sir Maximus daughter, Bekka Schlotterstein the 1st. After the marriage Bekka got pregnant the Emperor was worried what would this baby be Mortal or Immortal, the Maximus decided to approached the Gate Keepers, he sent out on his journey to the Gate Keepers, when he got there they were waiting for him "The baby will not survive nor the bride, but should Dracula change them they would survive", Maximus was devastated at the news, he turned around jumped on his horse and sprinted back to Kingdom, "Drake what have you done" he asked Dracula as he approached him, Maximus fell down onto his kneed crying. Dracula went down on one knee and said to Maximus "I can change her, let me" Maximus stood up and looked at Dracula with great anger and said "No, never while I am still living", he turned around and walked away.

Drake looked on as Maximus walked away. As time went on the time came closer for the birth of the next Generation to the Throne it would be the first Schlotterstein Drake generation, as the time came closer he started to worry, Drake was by his Empress side all the time caring for her and looking after her. It was time the baby was going to be born then Bekka fell into a coma, the doctors could do nothing the baby could not get out everybody stood there looking onwards as everybody were acting hysterical then Maximus looked into Draculas eyes and said save her please change her, Dracula went to Bekka's neck and bit her, his fangs entering her soft skin like a hot knife into butter, the blood was flowing down her neck, everybody was shocked at what was happening they started to shout "he is killing her he is an Immortal, kill him", Maximus entered between Dracula and the people and said "he is saving her" he turned around and saw Dracula' head lying on top of Bekka chest holding one hand saying "we were too late"

Maximus grabbed Bekka's one hand, shouting "It's my entire fault, it's all my fault!"

Everyone stood still witnessing this tragic event, the two Emperor's each holding one hand of Bekka, both telling to her how sorry they were while the blood flowing out of the two holes caused by Dracula's fangs.

I stopped reading and shut the book closed and there this was getting to much, did this mean Drake was a Vampire did he really mean it when he said he loved my since the time I first opened my eyes, did Lady Silver really meant it when she said "Drake chose you when you were born" o boy this was getting bizarre, and then at the wedding "you are now mine and I am yours until death do you part from me" I started to get scared, there is no way out I'm married to him. This was something totally unexpected, I needed answers from him and I needed it quickly. I ran out of my room directly to Drake's room, I knocked but no answer, I opened the door and there was Drake busy working out, only wearing pants, my knees wanted to get numb just by the sight of his perfectly shaped body, I had to snap out of it, he was a vampire and not human although I was not sure about it. I walked straight up to him "are you a vampire?" he smiled walked up straight against me took me by the arms looked me in the eyes "Yes Beth, I am" I was shocked and confused at the same time "why, how old are you?" he took a towel and started to dry himself, he was damp because of the workout "I am 365 years old" well one thing was certain he was defiantly Immortal and a vampire, "what about me, what happened to the previous Empress?" "She passed away a week before you were born" I knew he was not joking about the things he said, he was a pretty serious Emperor I knew that by now, I could not stop noticing his damp body and started to feel a little damp myself, I looked around his room and noticed there was a strange looking bed and lots of gym equipment and a study table. "How did she pass away?" I asked wanting to find out more, "she passed away, she was at the end of her lifetime" "was she Mortal like me, what was her name?" he looked away "Yes, her name was Retorlia Schlotterstein the 1st", I knew he felt something for her when I noticed that he looked away. I placed my hand on his shoulder and walked around in front of him. He looked down at me "you are the one, from the moment you opened your eyes". Then my knees gave in from under me, I think I passed out because of all the information in a very short time span, my body took too much, I could feel him carrying me to my room. He laid me down on the bed and then a gentle kiss on the lips and a soft whisper "Beth, sleep tight, see you tomorrow morning" I grabbed him squeezing him in my arms "please sleep next to me tonight". I dozed off, as I was dreaming I could see and feel him it was as if he was in my dreams we were kissing and touching each other like on our wedding night, I started to get horny and woke up it was late at night, the silky fabric sheets covered my barely naked body, it triggered my hormones leading me to start touching myself first I squeezed my two breasts together, with my hands forcing them apart and against each other as if Drake was doing it to me, then I felt a warm feeling between my legs my hands were both on my breasts and them my vagina was squeezed and pinched, it was not me, Drake was lying next to me in bed I forgot he was there he witnessed the ordeal the whole time, I turned on my side facing him, he pulled me closer and started to kiss me with great passion, it felt even more perfect, I touched him all over his hard torso feeling every build muscle part, he started to undress my bra covering my breasts, he kissed my neck and under my chin, working his kisses down my centre of my neck towards my cleavage, my breasts were next to his cheeks, I was still working my breasts while Drake rubbed my vagina over my panty, I could feel it was wet, he started to kiss my breasts as I gave it to him pointing my nipples towards his mouth as to show him where they were my breathing became deep and hard, he did not hesitate to take them one by one licking and nibbling on them they were a shard and nails pointing straight his other hand grasped my breast and I went straight for his pants, I started to pull his pants down over his hard ass and ploughed my nails into them he did not flinch nor made a noise he was focused on my breasts rubbing my vagina firmly up and down over my underwear, the noises came naturally expressing the satisfaction, I wanted the full package and belongings of mine situated between his legs.

I started to move to the front and could feel the area it was filled with lots of potential I could feel all of his body parts covered by his pants, I started to stick my hand into his pants, it was as hard as a rock and his balls was hanging perfectly in my hand, gently playing with them in my hand, pulling his balls and skin I could feel the his indulgence he also started to match my sounds and I knew he was doing it right, I have never went past first base with anyone I only kissed a boy once and that was closed mouth, I started to wonder "was I doing it right" but nature kicked in I gently stroked his penis in my hand, It felt just right I wanted to taste it I wanted it inside me, Drake started to undress his pants taking away any obstructions restricting me getting to this hard cock, he moved to my side, I could see it in the night light it was huge and it also was very hard no way in bending it, I leaned towards it and licked it's head, it tasted sweet and salty I liked the taste, Drake placed one of my hands on his balls and the other on his cock, he moved down with his mouth towards my vagina , he looked up at me and his eyes had a Safire Blue shining in like a blue torch with a flat battery, only shining just enough to be visible, he turned and focused on my vaginal area, he licked me where my slit of my vagina starts he licked and sucked moving more and more down to my entrance then he entered his finger along with his tongue pleasuring me from the outside and inside, as it became more intense I squeezed his cock so hard as to burst it, then I could not help it, I stuck it in my mouth his cock was halfway in my mouth he naturally moved it in and out until I took over I sucked on it as if it was a lollipop, deeper and deeper it entered my mouth until I could feel it at the back of my mouth, I gargled as it touched and tickled at the back. He removed his hand from my breast and stuck it under my ass squeezing it, moving his hand to my vagina from the back then that finger joined the other inside my vagina, I sucked and pulled on his cock as if I was going crazy making noises, then my orgasm arrived and his as well, we both erupted at the same time, he blew his load all over my hands it was creamy white, I never saw this in my life, after I saw he was finished Cumming I went in for more sucking on his cock until the last drop came out, I squirted all over his hands and arm, I could not control it, he was also twitching after his orgasm his cock was bouncing up as if it was alive the veins were visible and his cock's head was all swollen up. We laid there with total silence only making movements as if our orgasm were making an aftershock on our bodies. I fell asleep next to him in his arms.

Waking up the next morning I knew this was not a dream and that I have seen Drake totally naked and that I have tasted his body, smiled and started to giggle out of blissful completion. As I was lying on the bed I heard the bath water running, "It's Lady Silver I suppose" I guessed, then Drake came out of the bathroom wearing only a towel "are you going to join me for a bath" I jumped out of bed and on my way walking to him I realised I was naked, I ran back to put on my gown, he grinned and went into the bathroom. I could feel the blushing on my cheeks as I stood there dressing my gown, then I approached the bathroom door. "let me help you with that" he took of my gown and hanged it behind the door "get in, I made it just the way you like it" he made us a bath full of bubbles, he climbed in behind me and started to wash my back, I could feel his cock pressing against me slowly getting harder and harder, he started to was my neck I felt paralysed in his hands he moved to my shoulders gently washing it, I slit my hands unnoticed down and rubbed my vagina he moved the cloth over my breasts my nipples was already stiff the moment I felt his cock against me, he started to wash gently sliding the clothe over my nipple barely touching it, I could not take anymore. I turned around and started kissing him while his soapy hands moved over my breasts, sliding easily with the soap on it, I grabbed his cock firmly in my hand and started pulling on it up and down, my other hand in with one finger inside my vagina fingering myself he took his one hand and helped mine inside and on top while the other slightly strangle me around the neck we barely started when he started Cumming under water I could see it in his eyes he liked it, while he was busy having an orgasm I snapped and started to cum on top of him, as I came the feeling just became more and more exploding I started screaming and yelling "more - more Drake more!" then it was over I was numb my body could not take any more it was still new it was punishment for it, Drake got up his swollen cock pointing straight at me, I could not help it I had to, I grabbed his large cock and stuck it into my mouth and started to suck on it while caressing his balls. He looked up making yawning sounds almost as if his world was turned upside down, as I was sucking his cock I noticed no reflection of him in the mirror, I almost chocked and stopped looked at the mirror and at Drake I could not see him in the mirror, he looked down at the mirror and down at me next to his cock and said; "Immortals do not have reflections cause we do not age"

I stood up "what, this can't be!" was my first reaction, he held my arms looked at me but this time not only looking into my eyes but looking up and down at my naked body and said "Beth you are beautiful and this type of beauty need to be visible in the mirror not me", stood there speechless not knowing what to say. He started to dry himself and offered to dry me too "I appreciate it Drake but perhaps a next time" he smiled and kissed me on the lips I could feel the love in the way he kissed me.

As he stood in the bathroom door looking at me while drying myself he said "today you will meet the kingdom, dress as you like my Beth". He walked out and as he walked out I wanted to hug something so I called Lady Silver to my room. She came as always with speed I grabbed her and hugged her she just stood there not knowing what was going on. "Lady Silver it's a hug put your arms around me and squeeze" she just looked at me and stood there, "Master Drake won't approve this type of behaviour" she turned around and walked away, "everybody were so afraid of Drake, should I be to?" I wondered.

I picked the right dress Safire Blue; this would match his beautiful eyes. I decided to do my own hair and makeup, it looked better than my first attempt, I knew I would improve as time passed by, I was ready and looked the part, "Empress Beth" it had a nice ring to it, then It struck me, I did not even have a wedding ring, Drake entered my room, the knocking before entering was over I was his and I knew it. " you look lovely, here is something to wear with your lovely outfit" he handed me a little box, as I opened it there was a ring a ring like no other it was covered with diamonds, the main diamond colour was Safire Blue mixed with Hazel Green, a perfect match. I wanted to ask him about the ring but I knew, he knew a lot of personal things, so I decided to confront him "how do you know everything I do and what I want even knowing no one knows it?" he just grinned "my eyes and ears are everywhere My Beth."

It was day time and we would go out into the daylight for the first time since my arrival to see our Kingdom.....

I went down stairs and there Drake was dressed in white, his shoes was white, his shirt was white his entire outfit was white he looked like and Angel send for me. He took my hand we walked up to the front door; I was curious how it would look outside, then the door opened by itself, we walked outside, the light reflected off him like glittering diamonds, he looked at me and smiled, as I started to mind my surroundings, we were on a mountain the only castle situated on it, the whole Kingdom was under the castle on the ground I were on an Island I could see the whole of the Island from the mountain top, everybody looked up at us as we stood there. He grabbed me with one arm around my body, pulled me towards him squeezing my tightly against his body "do you trust me Beth?" "Of Course I do Drake" then two wings came out behind his back, they were more than 3m in length black and feathery, he really looked like an Angel now, then the wings spread out and started to flap, we started to float of the ground and then we started to fly down the mountain towards the people. I closed my eyes I was a little scared of heights and the thought of us flying was a bit over the edge for me. I held on to Drake for dear life. Once we reached the ground at the bottom of the Kingdom I opened my eyes, everybody was on their knees as the Emperor and his Empress have arrived.

Some of the people looked worried and some happy, one lady crawled up to me and begged me not to take his hand, Drake pushed her away from me ordered one of his guard to take her away, "No, leave her alone" the guards looked at Drake "listen to the Empress" Drake commanded his guards. They left the lady alone she ran to the joined the rest of the people on their knees on the ground. I looked at Drake, he was focused on the people as to see who was out of line and everyone looked down. He turned to me "Empress this is our Empire, Mortals and Immortals live among us and we are the rulers of them". I turned to the people feeling a bit ashamed of myself to treat people like this, I did not want to rule by driving fear in to the hearts of people, this would not be my legacy "this is your generation my Beth" I did not know what to say I just stood there staring at the people. I knew things had to be changed but how would I do that, where do I start, these people could not be slaves to my ruling. Drake turned to me "that's enough for today" his wings sprung out and then I knew driving up to the mountain would not happen, I grabbed him around his neck and he around my middle and we flew up to the castle, this time my eyes open and looking up as we approached the castle. He sat me down gently, "what were you going to do with her", "Punish her" he answered, I slapped him on the left cheek "shame on you".

I ran toward my room crying, thinking of the fear the lady experienced at that moment when the guards took her by the arms. She was warning me against him, "but why?" I thought to myself.

I took the book and opened it where I stopped reading, I need to know more and the book had the answers, as I opened the book I felt something unattached at the back of the book, the cover at the back was thicker than the front "what could it be, what was inside the cover?" I struggled to open the cover, there was something written on the inside of the book on the back cover, "Sed verum est quod voluntas movet in virtute sanguinis Schlotterstein" I did not know what that meant but knew that I had to find out, below it was another scripture "Et monili suo, deque potestate est ut princeps ipse fundávit eam expellat".

I was confused and had no idea what that meant, maybe Drake knew what was written on it, I grabbed the book and went straight to Drake's room, he was not there, maybe he was mad at me for slapping him, I looked everywhere for him, he could not be found, I walked to the front door hoping it to be open, It was, I went onto the balcony looked down from the castle. I could not see much down there but something was definitely happening, there was a massive fire in the middle of the Empire. It looked like Drake was down there but was not quite sure, then the fire became higher and bigger, they were burning something down there, I stood there for a while looking down trying to make out what was happening, I could see the whole Kingdom from the balcony. Then I saw Drake he was on his way up, he flew up towards the castle. Quickly turning around I went in and closed the door, as I was on my way to the fire place Drake came in through the door "Beth you hungry?" I looked at him "yes please, what were you doing down in the town?" he did not answer me he walked straight into the kitchen. He started to prepare food for us "do vampires eat and drink?" "Yes Beth, we eat and drink just like humans" so Immortals also ate and drank like us "and blood, do you drink it" he looked down "No - no I'm a vegetarian, don't really like the taste of flesh nor the taste of blood. So the vampire I married was no thread to me, which made me feel better, he knew how to prepare food that was for sure all that years living he had to learn something I guess.

"Drake the book you gave me, there is something strange about it" "what seem to be the problem Beth, is the answers you seek not in it?" I handed him the book, "see the strange scripture on the inside of the back cover, what did it mean?" he took the book and started to read the scripture, it looked as if he saw a ghost "no, sorry Beth I do not know" I knew something had just frightened him in the scripture, but he said he did not know what was written there, or did he. I took the book from him, I could feel he did not want me to take it but he let me. "Thank you, now about that delicious food" I said to change the subject. As we ate I saw him staring at the book, I knew there were more to know about this book and maybe time was running out for me. When we finished eating he asked me to join him in front of the fire place, the fire place was always burning "do you sleep at night?" I could not help myself asking, "no not really, sometimes I lay back close my eyes and just shut out the world", "does it help?", "Nope". He laughed as he answered, the fire place was nice and relaxing, I moved closer and closer to him, then with no hesitation jumped on his lap, "Take me Drake", I slid down to his crouch area, starting to open his belt and followed with his zip, I could see his cock inside his underwear wanting to come out, I started to pull his pants and underwear down to his knees, his cock pointing upwards, with one hand I started to pull on it then moving my mouth to his cleanly shaven balls I started to suck it playing with it in my mouth, rolling it and gently and nibbling at his skin, he spread out his arms out to the sides on top of the couch and gave himself to me, I moved my tongue over the shaft of his cock licking and biting at it with the other hand I started to play with his balls in my hand, now and then making it wet as to slide it more easily over it. Then I wanted that cock in my mouth I pulled his cock as to face me and started my way over the head licking and sucking on it, he started to make noises and breathing deeply in and out, his cock was delicious and hard, I moved his cock into my mouth up to a point where I could feel his balls touching my chin, his cock fully into my mouth I started to suck on it pulling his shaft with my hand, I concentrated on the head it was swollen up and soft, I could see he was enjoining it, he moved from side to side now and then grabbing to his face and my hair, I went faster and faster then his cock erupted the cum was coming out, quickly sticking his cock back in my mouth as to taste the cum inside my mouth, I felt him squirting and squirting it was too much for my mouth I had to swallow some of it, I did, he was finished Cumming but I was not finished I wanted to make sure there was no more cum coming out I wanted it all. He grabbed my head and pulled it way from his cock but that did not stop me, after a minute or so his cock started to get soft, I knew then it was over he had nothing more left for me. I did not spill anything and this was my dessert for the night.

I stuck the book under my head as to rest upon it, ensuring he could not take it without me noticing, as we laid there enjoying the warm fire, I started making plans on where I should hide this book when I sleep, I knew by now that he did not sleep at night, so that would be a problem. The book meant something to my family I recognised the family bloodline in the scripture. "Drake what were you doing down there in the town, I saw a massive fire", "sorting some things out and putting some things in place". Drake looked as if he was relaxed and enjoyed my company next to him. He looked really sexy and I wanted him, I moved closer to him and rested my head on his chest, placing my hands in his pants rubbing and caressing him, I could feel his enjoyment and he started to get hard. He started to touch my breasts, slowly moving his hands in circles, he started to kiss me in the neck and his cock became even harder in my hand.

Slowly opening button for button he exposed my bra, my cleavage was perfectly showing in the slight light produced by the fire, he moved down with his mouth kissing my cleavage, sliding his tongue in the groove, my nipples became hard with goose bumps, he reached behind my back and opened by bra, with his teeth he pulled my bra off my breasts fully exposing them. He pressed them together so that they would touch his cheeks I could feel his beard tickling my nipple as he moved over it, one hand gently moving down to my vaginal area, sticking his hand into my pants he started to squeeze my vaginal lips together rubbing them, sliding his one finger over my slit and clit area, he gently moved into my vagina rubbing my g-spot with his tip of his finger, my eyes rolled back into their sockets, one hand in with two fingers in my vagina the other moving slowly to my neck area and softly squeezing on it, I started to ride on his finger, moving it where I wanted to feel it, I felt my orgasm approaching I grabbed him behind his neck and dug my nails into it. I felt the cum running down my leg, it was flowing I started to ride his finger as to almost breaking it.

I jumped of his finger, my clit was so sensitive and just the slightest pressure on it made me almost jump up.

We were both exhausted from all the action and just laid there on the couch, he stood up and made us some Hot Chocolate "here Beth enjoy, made with Love" blushing I accepted, I looked at the fire as it moved in different directions. I think we spent more than an hour staring at the fire. "Drake please put jour cock inside me" out of nowhere I asked him.

We finished our hot chocolate and moved up to my room.......

We finished our hot chocolate and moved up to my room.......

Once we arrived at my room Drake took me by the arms and threw me onto the bed, he followed and climbed on top of me, with one sweep he had exposed my breasts, he torn my blouse and underwear and threw it to the ground, with no second chance I grabbed his shirt and ripped it open breaking all his buttons on his shirt, his muscular chest fully exposed, kissing and feeling over it. He started to kiss me on the lips entering his tongue into my mouth and I followed, his muscular hands rubbing and squeezing on my breasts, I could feel the power he had, I dug my nails into his chest and started to scratch him out of pleasure, he was taking too long, I had to take control, I pushed him away and climbed onto his lap, kissing him this time I felt in control, I started to undress him exposing every naked part on his body, then I took my pants and under pants off, his cock as hard as pock and my vagina as wet as water, I got onto him, I stuck his cock in my virgin vagina, inch for inch slowly, until it reached my virgin, it was sore I moved up and down only to the point of the virgin, then I closed my eyes and sat on him has hard as I could, I could feel my virgin break, it was painful and enjoining, it was done, I was no longer a virgin, I grabbed him with both hands around his back and then I started to ride him like a stallion screaming and shouting "fuck me Drake" he did, he started to mimic my motion, as the pain became pleasure, I started to scratch his back wanting him to feel my pain and pleasure, It felt like no words could explain, his cock was inside me and I was riding on it, I could feel my orgasm coming and then it happened, I was having an orgasm by being fucked by Drake, he pulled me off of him and pointed his cock straight at me by holding it in his hand and jerking on it, his orgasm had arrived he came on my neck and breasts, it was squirting out and I was almost totally covered with his cum. It was awesome my first time having sex. "Drake that was awesome" he looked at me "that's nothing; the best is still to come".

I was curious, could it be better than this. I wanted more that's for sure, as we were lying there I played with his balls and he rubbed my breast. Drake was staring at the book, I knew I had to hide it somewhere as soon as he left the room. We talked about the castle and the rules of the Kingdom, we laid there for almost talking for an hour, when Drake stood up, "Are you hungry Beth?" "Yes, food would be nice", he went out of the room to take a bath and make us some food to eat.

I ran to the door and locked it, I would hide it in the closet behind my clothes. I freshened up and took a bath to clean myself. Once I was finished, I went downstairs Drake was all done and the table was set out. We ate macaroni and cheese, we drank some coffee "so anything interesting you red in the book yet Beth" he asked looking into my eyes. "No, nothing as yet" I had to answer quickly as to avoid raising any suspicion. I could see he did not believe me; I just smiled at him and continued to eat.

"Do you want to take sex to the next level?" Drake asked out of nowhere, I just looked at him and shook my head acknowledging his offer. We finished up and he took my hand, we went up the stairs, but this time we did not go to my room but to Drake's.

"Close your eyes" he place a blind fold over my eyes, he led me to the strange looking bed and helped me onto it, he laid me down on my back, he started to spread my hand over my head and strapped it tightly to the bed. He then placed straps on my angles and tied it to the bed, then he took my knees and bend them spreading my legs apart, I could hardly move my legs could not shut close, he took the blindfold off I saw the ordeal and knew this would be an experience of a lifetime. He started to kiss me gently all over my neck. Then a snipping sound could be heard, he started to snip off my clothes starting with my blouse moving to my underwear. He exposed my breasts fully, lying open I could not close it with my hands, he started to kiss my upper body kissing and licking my stomach, he then started to nibble and bite on my breasts and nipples, this time his bite was harder than normal, he moved to my lips kissing me and biting on my bottom lip.

The pain was a bit more but I enjoyed it for some reason, I wanted more. He took the scissor and started to snip my pants and underwear exposing my vagina, I was totally naked and stranded on the bed not able to do anything to cover or even stop him, my knees were bent and pulled open to the sides, Drake placed a strange pillow under my but forcing my ass and vagina into the air, they were both facing up and open. I could feel the light breeze of the wind blowing over my naked body giving me a prickly feeling. Drake climbed on the bed at my vaginal area he started to feel over my exposed body, pinching me now and then "am I hurting you Beth?", "No please more" I could not help myself I wanted more it gave me a feeling of pain and pleasure combined in one. Then he slapped my one breast, not to hard but just enough to make a slapping noise "Oh! Give me more!" I shouted, again he slapped at my breast he pinched my nipple and then slapping it again, It felt strangely pleasure-full and the feeling of being his submissive made me sensitive on every curve on my body, I wanted him to take me to where I have never gone. He started to slide over my vaginal area with his one hand, the other slapping my breasts, he started to slide over my ass and vagina from the back to the front and from the front to the back, then he moved down to my vaginal area with his mouth, I knew this was going to be awesome and something new.

He started to lick and suck at my vagina, sliding his tongue over my clit and vaginal hole, his hands moved to my hips squeezing them, the feeling was so sensitive I wanted to shut my legs but it was impossible they were tied open very tight. Removing his one hand his fingered entered my vagina he started to finger me while sucking and licking at my clit area, then two fingers entered followed by three fingers sliding in and out, his other hand started to move to my but cheeks, gently squeezing at them. He removed his mouth and I could see his eyes focusing on my ass and vaginal area, while fingering my his other hand rubbed over my ass, it felt strange at the beginning but the feeling of more soon followed, he started to tickle my ass with one of his fingers. He looked up at me staring at him "are you ready Beth?" my head fell backwards on the bed "YES!" I shouted. Then he started to enter one of his fingers in to my ass while fingering my vagina, I could feel the fluids being produced of being played with flowing down out of my vagina over my ass lubricating the finger entering in and out of my ass, he went down to my vaginal area again licking my clit with his tongue, my toes curled up the noises was pain pleasure and exhaustion caused by holding my breath at some staged, his finger entered fully from behind into my ass, his other three fingers working my vagina hard, I could start feeling my orgasm creeping up it would not be long, Drake saw my orgasm approaching as I arrived he stopped with what he was doing and pulled out all his fingers inside of me, "what the hell Drake?" I could not believe he had just done that, my orgasm was here. He smiled and said "there are still more to come Beth", he opened a closet containing lots of strange things inside of it and he turned around and walked up to me with a whip and two nipple clamps, he placed it on my nipples and started to close them they pinched me hard but it felt tremendously arousing with pleasure, he moved back one step and whipped me over my breasts not to hard just enough to give of a prickling feeling. He moved to the beds controls and switched the bed, the bed turned and I was facing down my butt fully exposed, he moved over to the side and started to spank me over my butt, it felt naughty and wicked. He spanked me 5 times just enough to make my behind red, then he placed the whip down, he moved his strong hands over my butt spanking me twice, one on each butt cheek he went on his knees, my ass and vagina was eye height for him, he started to lick over my ass and vagina, forcing his tongue into my vagina and tickling my ass, the fluids was almost dripping out of my vagina as the pleasure given to me by Drake continued, he started to finger my in every hole below my body, I could not stop him I was bound to this bed and there was no way out, only screaming out load could ease the pleasure. Just as my orgasm started Drake stopped and extracted all his fingers from my holes, "please Drake, I want to cum!" I shouted, my body could not take any more. The bed turned again this time he turned me upside down my vagina and ass pointing to the celling, he started to remove his pants and place his solid hard cock into my mouth he started to fuck my mouth, he then started to finger me again in all holes available, at this time I had all my holed filled at once, his cock in my mouth and his fingers in my vagina and ass, he licked my clit and the sensational feeling was everywhere and I could feel it in my body.

As my orgasm started, Drake stopped again, he pulled out every body part inside he had inside all my holes. One more he turned the bed this time I was straight up as if I was standing but I was hanging. Drake walked up to me "Do you want it?", "please", he took his cock and started to slide it inside my vagina, slowly inch for inch I could feel it enter and touch the sides, then it reached the end his cock was inside me as deep as it can go, he grabbed me by the neck and fucked me hard, I could feel his balls hit against my ass as he rammed his cock inside of me. He pulled it out after a while, the bed turned again in the position we started, he got on top of me, sliding his cock inside my vagina "rub my clit" I asked of him, he did with one hand rubbing over my clit area, the other hand slapping my breasts and chocking me now and then, I could feel he was enjoying it as much as I did, he started to bite me in the neck but this time even harder, "ouch!" I shouted, his orgasm was near and so was mine, he looked up at the sky but I could see his Safire blue eyes clearly it was shining bright, his fangs started to extract, then my orgasm arrived and his as well, he did not pull out, I could feel his cum squirting inside of me, filling up my vagina with his fluids the feeling of him cumming inside of me gave my orgasm that something extra, breath-taking feeling, his orgasm lasted easily 3 whole minutes I could feel his cum and mine flowing out as it was too much for my vagina to handle.

He fell flat on top of me out of breath his eyes back to normal and his fangs back to normal, we laid there for 30 min still connected to each other the whole session lasted more than 3 hours.

Drake pilled his cock out and stood up, he wiped himself clean "I will be back soon Beth" he left me their strapped to the bed. As I laid there trying to find a way out Drake returned, "where is the book Beth?", I knew he was in my room looking for the book, I knew I had to act quick "I gave it to someone in the Kingdom to find out what the scripture means, why is there a problem?" I did not want drake to know I still had the book, I could feel there was something written in the scripture that meant something to him.

He started to untie me, acting all calm I asked for something to drink, "sorry Beth I have to go somewhere, its business, something I have to sort out".

We went down to the kitchen after taking a bath and cleaning ourselves after the amazing orgasm we had, we moved downstairs to the kitchen I made myself some coffee while Drake prepared his business plans, I kissed him goodbye and waited for him to leave, as soon as I saw he left I ran upstairs to my room and grabbed the book.

As I opened the book I paged to the place where I stopped, I knew now that Drake was the great grandchild of the late Count Dracula "Drake", why was I warned about him by the lady in the street, I was curious and so I started to read the next chapter.....

This is what was written in the book:

As I opened the book I paged to the place where I stopped, I knew now that Drake was the great grandchild of the late Count Dracula "Drake", why was I warned about him by the lady in the street, I was curious and so I started to read the next chapter.....

Emperor Maximus was so distorted by the death of his elder daughter and his Air to the Throne that he made a special burial for his daughter and the child, they were Mummified and buried them in a cave under the waterfall. No one was to know where they were, Maximus died at the age of 229, he was mortal but he lived a long life, the people in that time was considered to be a teenager at the age of 110. Maximus's brother "Franke Victor Nstein the 1st took the Throne after he died, he was declared the new Emperor of the Empire he was a strong Emperor and could not stand the thought of an Immortal next to him on the Throne, Victor had an offspring named "Adam Labors Nstein the 1st" he was Air to the Throne after Victor.

Victor was an eccentric Scientist who focused on the study of anatomy, Drake and Adam did not get along by the help of Victor from the side pouring him on, the Empire could not be ruled by two different Realms, Drake was always on his place but he ruled the Empire by driving fear into the people, they were afraid of Drake he killed the Dragon and burned down their Dungeon, what he would do to a human only a mortal with a last breath, so the people obeyed his every command and followed his rules, the Mortal Emperors were no match for him so Victor saw that the Empire was ruled by only on Emperor and it was not him. Victor instructed Adam to kill Drake and regain the other half of the Empire, he would get the other half in return and he would rule with his father as Emperors, "but how would we be able to kill him father?" Victor did not know so he set out on a journey to the Gate Keeper to seek answers as he arrived before them, he bowed down looking up at them "A wooden stake through the heart is the only way, but beware" Victor stood up and knew what to do. He arrived at the caste he told Adam the only way to kill Drake was by driving a wooden stake straight into his heart. They would plan the execution well days waiting for him to make the wrong move, but to no avail he was always so unpredictable in his actions, they knew they had to regain the trust of the Kingdom and that the slaying had to be done in front of everybody. Victor called all the people in the Kingdom to gather around in the middle were the Emperors Thrones were placed one for Franke Victor Nstein the 1st and the other Count Vladislaus Drake the 1st. As Victor and Drake sat down on their Thrones Victor gave Adam the signal, Adam jumped out from behind Drake and stabbed him he drove the stake deep in to Drake's heart, Drake looked at Adam and bit him in the neck with his self-extracted fangs filling him with his venom, he pulled out the stake and drove it into Adams heart whispering in his ear while forcing the stake deeper and deeper until it stuck out the back "You missed". Adam fell to the ground instantly dead by the venom and the stake through his heart. Everybody ran away out of fear, Victor grabbed his son lying on the floor he went down on his knees next to him "how could you, this is the second killing by your hands Drake" crying out load. Drake turned around and walked away Victor jumped up and ran up to Drake "you will pay for this, that's my promise to you!" Victor picked up his son, he took his departed son to the cave where Maximus hidden his deceased family. As he got there he started to draw a drawing of a mechanical device that would convert lightning in to energy it was perfect , he would bring his son back from the dead, but there was a problem the venom from Drake's fangs caused some of his tissue to break down, the parts needed to be replaced but by what, then Victor remembered Maximus next of kin was well mummified and so he started to open them, their bodies were still in a very good condition and some of their parts could be used to complete his son's, so he started to dismantle the bodies, he was so focused on his project that he started to pay less attention to his Empire, then it was done Adam was all stitched up and ready for the energy surge to run through his body. Victor had to wait for a storm with lightning before the transformation would be complete. It took 15 days for the rain to come Victor kept the stitched up body in a fairly good condition while waiting, then the storm followed the rain. It was time Adam would raise today and take back our Kingdom, then a lightning struck producing just enough for Adam to start moving, Victor knew it "It's Alive!" he shouted out. He ran to Adam "you are alive my son" but Adam did not know neither who he was nor what he was he had no feeling and memories, it was his son's body parts but his brain was dead there was no function. His strength was unmatchable and he was a supreme being of sorts, he knew this Monster he created would be the answer to stop the Rain of Drake on the Throne.

He knew that people would be scared of the Monster and hid him in the mountains where he could not be seen by anyone. Adam was dead and he created a Monster to slay Drake.

There was a festival in town and Victor snuck his Monster inside the castle he locked him inside a room where no one would find him, he told his Monster that someone wanted to kill his creator and that person would be sitting next to him on the Throne.

They were called to the Throne's "all Hail Emperor Franke Victor Nstein the 1st" "all Hail Emperor Vladislaus Count Drake the 1st" Victor smiled and knew Drake's time was close, then Victor instructed one of the guards to fetch something in the room where the Monster was, the guard left. The guard arrived at the room and opened the door; the Monster killed the guard and ran down to where his Creator was he wanted to protect him from the danger as he ran down everybody that got in its way were killed he was too strong to stop and had no feeling of pain, when he arrived he saw his maker sitting next to Drake, he ran towards him shouting out load, then Drake and the Monster started to fight bashing each other but no one was winning Drake bit and clawed at him no blood only flesh ripped off the monster would not stop Drake fought back with great force but the monster was too much for him, he retaliated and flew through the ceiling class, no one ever saw Drake fly that was the first, Victor was happy he accomplished what he wanted, the monster turned onto the people and started killing them as well, "Stop! Adam stop!" he shouted "I am your creator!" the people saw and heard this, they started to scream Victor created a Monster to kill us all then someone stopped and pointed to the monster "FrankeNstein's Monster" and ran away. The Emperor knew he had to do something about it, he took his Monster to the cave and sat down "FrankeNstein's Monster, what have I done?" I cannot destroy it just like that what if Drake came back how would we stop him, then he started to make a medallion out of the richest mineral he could find strong enough to hold in the power of the FrankeNstein Monster the "Astetine Gem" was like no other. "But how would he get the power in the medallion?" he started to draw up drawings as to reverse the power out of FrankeNstein's body and into the medallion. It was done the machine was ready , he took FraneNstein and placed him on the table tying him down on his back he took his arms legs and head and tied him to the table tight so that he could not escape, then the process was started up, Victor left the cave not being able to bare the screaming pain of the FrankeNstein Monster as his power was drawn from him in to the Medallion, he stood there until there was no more noises coming out of the cave, he knew it was done The FrankeNstein Monster was dead, he knew the power the Medallion possessed could not fall into the wrong hands so he used the same mineral to create a book as to hold the power of FrankeNstein's Medallion safe. He started to write the history of the Empire as to pass on the knowledge and understanding of the events that took place.

4 Years passed and the Empire was flourishing everybody was happy and the Monster Victor created saved them, but he was gone and no one to protect the Kingdom, then out of nowhere Drake returned but this time he was not alone he was accompanied by two Red Dragons standing 6m tall and a Lady also a Vampire with bright blue eyes, red hair and long sharp shimmering nails, Victor carried the medallion around his neck keeping the power of FrankeNstein close and always being prepared for Drake's return, Victor drew his sword and walked towards Drake "so the Dragons were never slain?", "No Victor, I used them for insurance against your family". Victor knew this would be to the end. Victor instructed his army to attack, it was brutal and the army was slaughtered by the Dragons, he realised they were no match for them, as he stood there he felt the medallion burn his chest he took it out, it was shining as if it was a light, he pressed it against his chest. He fell to the ground screaming out of pain, then something happened, he could see further than any man he could hear every noise happening around him, his reflexes became instant and he experienced a power like no other, FrankeNstein's power has entered his body, he knew it was the medallion he grabbed at it and pulled it away from his chest to look at it, then he started to feel the power draining back into the medallion, he quickly placed it back close to his chest and the power was back. "It works" he thought to himself, it was up to him to save the Empire, he ran towards the first Dragon, fire was coming out of its mouth but Victor did not feel a thing the medallion protected him, he stuck his sword into the Dragon slaying it, the people in the Kingdom witnessed as the Emperor exterminated both Dragons the Vampire Lady flew away on Drake's command he walked up to Victor "you can't stop me, no one can" Victor drew a wooden stake from his side and stuck it in Drake's heart, as he forced it in the laughter could be heard "you missed" pulling the stake out and pushing it into Victor, Victor did not feel a thing Drake looked shocked and frightened, "it can't be you're not Immortal!", "Today I am" Drake stepped back and opened his wings to fly when all of a sudden Victor drew his sword and cut one wing of, Drake stood there wingless and unable to fly begging Victor to reconsider as Victor approached Drake "I exile you from this Empire" then a bright light shined on the battle scene, it was the Gate Keepers. "Stop, no Mortal of the Schlotterstein's shall be turned Immortal, and half the Kingdom shared, that was the agreement" Victor knew he had to act quick and struck Drakes head off with his sword. Everybody was shocked at what just happened. "He cannot die unless stuck into the heart with a wooden stake!" but Drake did not stand up he was decapitated "could this be, is this the end?" then Victor realised it was not he who killed Drake it was the Medallion's power FrankeNstein's power was like no other and only the power it possessed could do it. He knew he had to keep quiet about the Medallion. "You have broken the agreement, for that your brother's youngest daughter shall marry Vladislaus Count Drake the 1st unborn son. "He will have a son?", "yes, he will be born on the next full moon", "And if she doesn't, what then?" "We will end this Empire." They faded away and he knew he did a terrible thing; he rushed to the cave and placed the Medallion inside the book cover sealing it with the scripture "Sed verum est quod voluntas movet in virtute sanguinis Schlotterstein" and "Et monili suo, deque potestate est ut princeps ipse fundávit eam expellat." This was the key to the Empire, he buried the book with FrankeNstein's body; he went back to the kingdom, where the people were awaiting for the Emperors decision. "Was that Lady his wife that stood by his side, who was she" he told the people that he would return with a decision and set out on a quest to the Gate Keepers, on his arrival he found the Lady also there, she was looking at them and not once at Victor "Her name is Catherine Claire Dracula the 2nd, she carries the offspring of Vladislaus Count Drake the 1st" "was he married to her, what is going on?" "Dracula knew he would not have offspring as he discovered with the death of his bride Bekka." "So Drake went and found him someone to carry his offspring? "No, he did not go and look for someone she is niece, from Transylvania" Victor knew Drake had planned well for his Reign to continue as Emperor in the Kingdom, he had no choice, "We accept the hand, under one condition, no Mortal to be changed into an Immortal". He raced back to this Kingdom and explained the conditions he sat out, he assured the people that no harm would ever come to them as long as there was Mortal blood Ruling the Kingdom.

One year later the youngest daughter Empress Elizabeth Schlotterstein 2nd of Maximus got married to Emperor Kroan Count Drake 1st the offspring of Drake. The wedding was somewhat interesting, and Victor walked Elizabeth to the front handing her over to Kroan. Victor knew the kingdom would always be ruled by Mortals and Immortals. He passed the legend on to his children and his grandchildren reminding them what happened on that day and the tale of FrankeNstein. As time passed Kroan had his offspring at the age of 2001 years old named Dimitri Belikov Drake 4th the Air to his half of the Throne and Empire Kroan did not re marry when Elizabeth passed, she had one child called Damian Ames Schlotterstein the 1st. Kroan was a devastating Emperor and wanted all, he send army after army to gain control to the whole of England, after another 25 years of Ruling Dimitri turned 25 still a little boy when the Gate Keepers stepped in, they had the power of ending and giving life, they took Kroan away from the Kingdom and placed him in Transylvania, it was Dimitri's turn to Rule as Emperor. He did not want the hand in the Kingdom he only wanted his Half of the Empire, but this was not the condition he had to take the hand, he wanted to be old enough "340 Days from now my Empress will be born, but I will follow the condition set out I will marry when I turn 260", Victor was happy as he was on his end and stepping out of the Throne, Elizabeth's son Damian was 20 years old and would be air to the Throne in his (Mortal) place.

Damian was an excellent Emperor caring for his people and the Kingdom, he stood firm on decisions and did not let Dimitri get his way. The legends and stories were long forgotten and no one talked about the past when Dragons and FrankeNstein was feared. Dimitri never showed his powers he led the kingdom in the shadows of Damian, he knew that Damian would make the people comfortable and following him would be easier for him, Damian became ill of old age he was 98 years old, he could not be saved his condition became worse and worse, Damian had one daughter at the age of 90 her name was Helena Beth Schlotterstein the 2nd they could not make more children as it was not possible for him so Helena's son would be air to the Throne, but she did not have any she only had a daughter named Retorlia Schlotterstein the 1st, she fled the Kingdom when she turned 18.

Emperor Dimitri Belikov Drake the 4th turned 103 years and he would be the only Emperor on the Throne, there was no one that could take the Air on the Throne for the Mortals, the Kingdom was to be ruled only by Dimitri Belikov Drake the 4th. Everybody was restless and not quite sure of what would happen under the Rain of Dimitri. Dimitri did not know how to rule he was always in Damian's shadow. As time went on Dimitri started to get the hold on things and Ruled as he pleased still searching and exploring his method of ruling, he found that kindness made him feel weak and fear made him feel in control, so he chose the path of fear. Everybody would know that for many years they would be ruled by an Immortal.

"The kingdom will be ruled by Mortal Blood and only Mortal blood once more".

That was the last sentence written in the book with the family trees added of the royal blood lines, Maybe Drake did not know about the power the booked possess, the scripture was written inside the book against the cover, I had to find out what the scripture meant...........

"The kingdom will be ruled by Mortal Blood and only Mortal blood once more".

That was the last sentence written in the book, Maybe Drake did not know about the power the booked possess, the scripture was written inside the book against the cover, I had to find out what the scripture meant...........

I knew this book had to be with me at all times, I went to Drake's room, he was not there, I called for him but no answer, I knew this was my chance to go to the Kingdom and ask someone working in the book store if they knew the language of the scripture.

I called the driver, insisting he took me down to the Kingdom, being his Empress he knew he had to obey my command, I got in the Limo and he drove me to the Kingdom. As I arrived the people bowed down not staring at me passing. We stopped and I climbed out, I walked up to someone in the street, "where is the book shop?" the man pointed towards a small shop in the street. "Thank you", I knew I had not much time to find out what was going on, as I entered the book shop the bookshop owner almost fell on the ground trying to bow with all the books in his way.

"Please, stand up, I need your help with this scripture" the man was very eager to help, I handed him the book and showed him the scripture, he looked at it and started to cry "what's wrong?" "the end has arrived of suffering" I did not know what he meant "Please what does the scripture say?" he looked at me handed the book "Sed verum est quod voluntas movet in virtute sanguinis Schlotterstein. Means: Only the true blood of Schlotterstein will unlock the power", and "Et monili suo, deque potestate est ut princeps ipse fundávit eam expellat" means: "The necklace possess the power to banish the Immortal leader".

I knew this was serious "how do I open the back of the cover?" "I don't know only the true blood of the Schlotterstein can open it". I did not know what that meant neither what to do to open the book. I instructed the books man to keep quiet about the book, "please Empress save us, they killed her", "who did they kill?", "the lady that spoke to you that day". I went back to the driver and instructed him to take me back to the castle.

As we arrived Drake was nowhere to be found, he might have gone to the Gate Keepers, I had to act quick, Only the true blood of Schlotterstein will unlock the power, this was the Medallion that has the power of FraneNstein, but how would I unlock the cover. The necklace possess the power to banish the Immortal leader, it made sense, the last sentence in the book said "The kingdom will be ruled by Mortal Blood and only Mortal blood once more" Victor knew this would happen, he planned ahead.

Then it struck me. I am the last Schlotterstein bloodline alive; I am the last chance the Empire would have to be ruled by Mortal blood, I had to kill Drake. The thought of having to kill Drake was somewhat unthinkable, how would I kill Drake. I knew the medallion would protect me and help me but how would I get it out, I tried smashing it against the wall and floor but to no success, I t was the strongest mineral on earth, it had to be opened by something, maybe the scripture was the key, so I had another look at it, it said only true blood could open it, "of course the book opened with my blood" so I ran to the kitchen and grabbed a knife, as I ran towards my room up the stairs I could hear Drake outside talking to the guards, I slammed the door shut and locked it, I grabbed the book as I wanted to cut myself I heard Drake knock outside the door, out of fear and anxiety I cut myself deep, the blood was pouring out I quickly placed my hand on the cover, but nothing happened, but this was not possible. Then I could see the light shining out from inside the cover, the cover opened. I grabbed the medallion and placed it around my neck as the Victor did, I could feel the power entering my body, I could smell Drake outside the door, my senses Immortalised I felt strong. Drake forced the door open, as he entered he saw the medallion and around my neck and stared to run down the stairs on his way to the door, I ran after him, I was faster than him, as he entered the door frame I caught up with him.

I grabbed him, "where have you been?" he looked at me, his Safire blue eyes showing the fear for me, again I asked "where have you been?" he looked relaxed and I let go of him, and as a bullet he jumped and flew out in the open, "to summon the Dragon". I knew this would be a great battle and the people in the Kingdom were depending on me to save them, out of pure instinct I jumped after him into the mist of air, I caught him on one wing, pilling him down and down until we reached the ground. I had no weapons only my hands and the medallion around my neck, his fans was out and ready to bite, his nails became longer, long enough to cut off an arm or leg, I had to act quick, we battled and I was not winning he had an upper hand on me, then a fire breathing Dragon appeared from behind the mountain, the people in the Kingdom started to form teams fighting the Dragon, screaming "protect the Empress" I knew the people were no match for the Dragon, the Dragon started to burn the people protecting me, so I left Drake and ran to slay the Dragon before any more harm could come from the Dragon, I ran towards the Dragon and drove my sword into it, it was still fighting back I knew I had to end this quick so I went for its neck and decapitated it, it was dead, once I slayed the Dragon, Drake was gone, he flew away. Afraid for his return, I started to take care of the people and helped where I could.

Two weeks passed and Drake was to be seen, another month passed and no sign of Drake. The Kingdom was saved, but was it? I would never take the Medallion of my neck for so long I would live.

Beth destroyed the Castle, wanting the Kingdom to rebuild as her Empire and her Legacy, one month passed, the morning early Beth heard screaming noises coming from the streets, Drake was back he started to tear up the Kingdom, he wanted revenge and he came alone. Beth ran outside this time having a shield and a sword, she came prepared. "Drake let's finish this" Drake acknowledged and the battle of the ages transpired, there were blood spilled Drake eventually got Beth in front of him by the neck having a firm grasp he picked her up "this will be the end of the Mortal ruling", and he bit her in the neck, the blood flowing out of the holed left by the fangs, he dropped Beth to the ground, Leaving her there he turned to the People "I will be your ruler" then Drake felt something, as he looked down he could see something protruding out in front of his chest, he turned around Beth had just pushed a wooden stake through his heart, "but this can't be, my heart is on the other side" Beth smiled at him "I figured since all the other Emperors had tried the other side of your chest id give this side a go"

The Kingdom was saved, the Empire had a Mortal on the Throne and all the Immortals were destroyed.

After 6 months Beth felt something she could not explain, the feeling inside her, she was pregnant and it was Drake's child.

After 6 months Beth felt something she could not explain, the feeling inside her, she was pregnant and it was Drake's, I could feel the baby grow inside of me, I had to get it out Bekka died giving birth to and Immortals child, "I can die giving birth to this child", but as time went on I started to feel something for the child, it was my child as well, "I would have this child, I will give birth to this child. Labour Day arrived I started to feel weak and helpless as my body was undergoing shock, all the healers knew Beth would die. After 6 hours my time had arrived and my baby was on its way, the pain was tolerable I laid back pressing the medallion against my chest I closing my eyes. The delivery went smooth with no complications. The medallion's power entered my body while giving birth saving me and the baby from the delivery.

6 months later a baby girl was born half Mortal and half Immortal, I had my first born and named her;

"Desire Mitchell Schlotterstein the 2nd"

Desire had her father's Safire blue eyes. The Kingdom was afraid of Desire, they did not know what to expect from her, how she would act if she crew up. I did not re marry anyone after Drake, when Desire turned 18 she was given the other half of the Kingdom by her birth right. The Empire had two Empresses on the Throne. Desire grew up like any other human she was treated the same when she was young, but now she was the Empress on the side of the Immortals, the other half of the Kingdom belonged to her. After Desire reached 20 years she stopped crowing, her looks did not change and I knew that Desire would live a long life, but I was worried of what would happen to her when I was no longer around.

One year passed and people started to get missing, no traces of them could be found, the guards were put on strict watching to safeguard the people in the Kingdom. I started to feel a feeling in the medallion on my chest, the same feeling when there was danger present. I did not want to act without certainty but the feeling I felt was when Desire was near me. After months of missing people were reported, one of the people reported missing was discovered outside the Kingdom walls, visible marks in the neck was seen the same marks made by a vampire, signs of claws on the body could be seen, the person was crabbed and carried over the walls by something. I knew it could only be Desire, she was the only vampire of some sort still living. The people wanted answers from Desire, "where were you, what are you doing at night?" this was some of the questions raised by the people, Desire assured the people that she would do them no harm but they did not believe her. "Lock her up!" the people shouted. I stood up "No one is locking up the Empress!" furious with the people of acting without any evidence, I then turned to Desire "tell me now, what is going on?" Desire turned around and ran away towards the newly build castle. I knew that something was wrong; I had to find out what was going on. I re opened the book given to me by Drake, "the Gate Keepers would know" she knew what to do and where to go to get answers. She did not tell Desire anything about her journey to the Gate Keepers.

On my arrival at the Gate Keepers, I looked around there was one realm broken, "Beth the Danger has only begun" they knew my question before I asked it, they turned around and vanished, I knew what had to be done, the Empire could not take another devastating disaster like the one they had before Desire. I have to end it before it gets out of hand. On my arrival at the Castle Desire was nowhere to be found. I looked everywhere for her but no sign.

I went to the Kingdom asking around if anyone saw her, but no one have seen her since she left for the castle. More people were reported missing later on, Desire had a hidden agenda, a week passed then out of nowhere Desire returned, "where were you?", "I went looking for you, I could not find you anywhere", might she be telling the truth I did not tell her where I was going when I left. "where were you Mother?" she asked me I could see into her Safire blue eyes she was honestly asking "I went to the Gate Keepers to seek answers", she sat down looking up at me "what is going on, I'm scared", I took her in my arms and held her tight. Desire slept in my room that night; I wanted to keep an eye on her. Late at night close to 12h00am I heard something in my room, it was dark, "where are you Desire?" I shouted. Then I could see her eyes shining like Drake's. I quickly turned on the lights on, as I looked at her I could see her fangs were fully extracted, "what is going on mother?"

It was Desire she killed those people, I had to stop her.

I called for the guards as I restrained her, we locked her up in the castle dungeon where she could not harm anybody. The Kingdom did not need to know about Desire being locked up, I told the people that Desire was sick and that she could not attend her Empress duties. Then the next day another person was reported missing, but this could not be Desire is locked up in the dungeon, it was someone else, Drake's father was taken to Transylvania by the Gate Keepers and Drakes grandfather was killed by Victor. Who could it be?

I went to Desire and confronted her "what is going on Desire?" "I do not know, every time someone is killed my fangs come out and I start to feel restless" I knew now Desire was not to blame. "When you have this feeling again, please tell me" Desire acknowledged by bowing her head, she jumped up and hugged me, I could feel she was afraid of what was happening to her. That same night she cried out for me, I did not hesitate to answer to her call, "the feeling, I can feel it mother" I knew something was in the Kingdom, I unlocked Desire and we went to the Kingdom, the medallion's power was flowing into my body it sensed the danger, "there Desire pointed out" something strange sitting on the wall looking down, then another, there were two, Desire could feel them "she looked at me "they are my kind, vampires" that was the answer, that is why the medallion gave me that feeling when I was near Desire it felt what Desire was feeling, the vampires saw us approaching and flee away. We knew we needed the element of surprise on them, it would be risky but we had to do it.

The next morning I announced to the people that there would be a feast and celebration on the lives lost to honour them. The people were happy and instantly started to make arrangement on the Empress account. We would dress like the people enjoining the celebration, and then systematically divide ourselves from the crowd making us vulnerable to be attacked, everything was going according to plan, the night dark and the people forgot about the danger lurking at night.

Desire went into a dark ally and I went into the dark street singing as if I was drunk. Then they struck, they grabbed Desire I could hear screams but the scream was not Desire's and then I could feel the claws dug deep inside my flesh. I knew something had just grabbed me, as I was being picked up in the air I drew my sword and sliced the legs off of the vampire dropping me to the floor along with it. I jumped up and wrestled the vampire restraining it to the ground. He almost looked like Drake, could it be Dimitri's father, I was not sure but the resemblance was there. I tied him up, and dragged him to the ally where Desire was. On my arrival I saw that Desire slaughtered the other vampire there was blood everywhere. "no Catherine!" Desire had killed the niece "Catherine Claire Dracula the 2nd" who carried the offspring for the Dracula family. "I guess you must be Kroan?" I asked the vampire lying beneath my feet with no legs, "I am Kroan Count Drake 1st" he looked afraid of Desire, and Desire looked as if she could tear him apart, his niece torn into pieces by my child, "the two realm united, it can't be!" he shouted out load. "Your father is dead, Your son is dead, now join them!" I threw him over to Desire "his yours Desire", I turned around and walked away.

For years no signs of any threat were seen, I was blessed with a beautiful husband and Desire found someone as well but she knew she would never have children with him as she was Immortal and he was Mortal, I told her about the Gate Keepers, "they have answers" I took Desire to the Gate Keepers, as we approached them "Yes Desire you can have a Mortals baby but the other way around". Then vanished, our answer was overwhelming. Desire went on marrying her lover and 9 Months later both our children were born, they were both lads.

The Empire lived happily ever after, and the Reign of two different Realms was successful.

The people found out what happened that night at the feast, stories were told and a new Legacy was made by the greatest Empresses that ever lived.

"All Hail Empress of Mortality Beth Mitchell Schlotterstein the 1st"

"All Hail Empress of Immortality Desire Mitchell Schlotterstein the 2nd"

Thank you for reading this book, please be sure to visit my Smashwords page for more exciting books!

Christiaan Bann

Lives in South Africa, he started writing books at the age of 29 his wife Wilmien convinced him. He never read a book from cover to cover, he considers himself a writer and not a reader.

Unexpected – Book 1 - 8

By Christiaan Bann

Smashwords Edition

Copyright © 2014 CHRISTIAAN BANN

**Smashwords Edition, License Notes**

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.
