 
United States Human Expedition

By Timothy Rodgers

Smashwords Edition

Copyright 2012 Timothy Rodgers

**Smashwords Edition, License Notes**

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Table of Contents:

Introduction: Free eBook Publication

Chapter One: Basic Concept and Functional Purpose

Chapter Two: Current Lapse of Needs

Chapter Three: Foreign Policy and Military Strategy

Chapter Four: Chaos Variables and Psychological Warfare

Chapter Five: What Our Constitutional Republic has Become

Chapter Six: True Democracy

Chapter Seven: Passing the Human Expedition Act

Chapter Eight: Phase of Development and Measuring Progress

Chapter Nine: Civil War

Chapter Ten: Religious Factions and Warnings Against a United Humanity

Chapter Eleven: Seizing the American Dream and Living Among Humanity

Chapter Twelve: The Dream of World Peace made into Reality

Chapter Thirteen: Conclusion Results

*

Introduction: Free eBook Publication

_The U.S. Human Expedition Petition written by me at moveon.org states-_

U.S.Govt.: Form the U.S Human Expedition to help alleviate the monetary leverage over human need.

Form the United States Human Expedition to address the poverty based issues that the people of the people of the United States face.

The URL to this eBook is included here.

Free eBook at smashwords.com explains the U.S. Human Expedition concept and how it would act as new checks and balances to the leverage that money has over human need.

This idea will give veterans among others facing various disability claims a place to go when they must wait years for the claims process to pay out. The U.S.H.E will give everyone a chance to stand on their feet again financially and recover, regardless of how bad their situation is.

At the time of this update in January 2017 going into Donald Trump's Administration, 6,491 signatures are on the petition from President Obama's era as President of the United States.

Petition Background

Money has become a measurement of freedom for many. I have lost many valuable, sentimental relationships and possessions as a result of the lack of. I see countless others everywhere; everyday, suffer from the same mechanics...

The online petition then lists all the signers 10 at a time, dating back to the start of the petition.

Welcome to the Dream

I am going to use this publication to explain this idea as simply as I can. There will soon be more content for those who want to go further into this available as time goes on. This is not a fictional work of literature. It is factually-based information for the analysis of our current social and governmental structure with the purpose of providing to our people the rights that are meant to be given to us by the government as taxpaying citizens of our great country. Tensions and animosity are continuing to grow. Change is essential if we are to avoid facing very serious consequences that involves the loss of an abundance of resources and human life. I believe that with this alternative, we will be able to avoid all the needless suffering that will follow from the result of such concerns going unattended to. The majority of what I am mentioning can be seen on the news everyday and for many, personally felt as several pivotal decisions made by our modern leadership effects just about everyone on the ground level. A midst all of the violence among other turmoil, many seem to forget why we have the Constitution to begin with. Our people are faced now with a life style never thought imaginable by our Founding Fathers. They anticipated that our world would change and that progress would bring about new challenges in which we now face; yet, at the same time many of the amendments have been compromised for the worst in the name of our own defense.

Life, no matter who you are is not going to be easy even if it seems like it is now. Our world is going to inevitably change and if our people with our government do not adapt and change with it, we will face the destiny where we are the history and no longer carry the option of writing it because we simply will not be a part of it. Our system of distribution of wealth has become outdated. History has proven before many times that once a democratically themed republic stops serving its population, that the days of its reign are numbered. This is evident when the system in place no longer effectively works to ensure systemic opportunities for vast amounts of the population. Considering the staggering numbers of people involved in such economies, only a small percentage of the population really needs to participate to make change which turns the idea of democracy backwards on itself. Our Founding Fathers are counting on us to make the necessary changes and apply the new checks and balances that they knew we would have to one day set in place. That day is nearly upon us and we must all find the courage in our hearts to play the role meant for all of us on this Earth. We must now face the residual effect of the ignorance that has been accumulating since the end of the second chapter of our modern world war. I do not expect anyone to agree with everything I say. I include my opinion on somethings because I think it will help bring insight onto things often overlooked.

I hope you enjoy this reading or listening experience as I am sure it will be unique. Please do not make the mistake of trying to turn this concept into a form of communism. Try not to pass judgment or draw early conclusions. I am not saying do not ponder your thoughts as you go; yet, if you dismiss this idea as unrealistic before you see all the information I present, you only cheat yourself by selling this idea short in your head. Many will probably have to go over the concept a few times before they fully envision what I am describing. It is okay if you feel confused at first, solving complicated problems are not as simple. I promise to those who do see the light, that you have found a hope that has not been seen in some time. A man that once saw this hope told the world not so long ago that he had a dream.

United States Human Expedition was originally published in Sept. 2012 and has been updated in Jan. 2017. The petition at moveon.org has been edited to go to President Trump. The original version is being archived and will be published again with other materials for historical reference.

Back to Index

Chapter One: Basic Concept and Functional Purpose

The U.S. Human Expedition would become a branch of the military through the Department of Defense. Unlike other branches of the United States military; compassionately, this branch would have a purely non-combative purpose and would demonstrate to the world that we are listening and acknowledge that our foreign policy needs modification. Inspired by the spirit of the formation of our own Constitution and our yearning to promote freedom, the only mission of the United States Human Expedition would be to check and balance the inhumane leverage that money has over human need. This does not mean that people will be able to get something for nothing as money will still play a viable luxury based role in building economic momentum, surplus and stability. This does mean that we will be able to do away with the shackles of debt and prolonged indentured servitude on both individual and government angles. In short, the U.S. Human Expedition would provide for the needs of people here domestically and prove that it works here on the home front before bringing our efforts into overseas locations. We have had many issues trying to raise republics up in places that do not understand it much while they mock the fact that we have not perfected it ourselves.

President Barack Obama has his health care plan in place and was the first step in the right direction to making this idea a reality. President Obama faced a Congress that may still repeal the bill due to it being unconstitutional to obligate anyone to any type of service. Before anyone tries to say I am going to create a system of free loaders, I will state that I am calling for the utilization of resources that are costing tax dollars and still yet remain to be processed. The United States Government as taught in colleges and even some high schools across the country, are paying many land owners subsidies to not grow crops or raise livestock on their fields and these lands lay dormant. All that money is spent in the name of controlling our economy which in reality, our government has very little or no control over anyway. Tragically, part of the reason we are in this mess is because we already have too many people getting paid to do nothing. Ironically enough, it is those people who usually harass others about not doing enough to progress the workload of our country and vote to try and deny benefits to those who are legitimately injured working dangerous or difficult jobs. It would be far more effective to get a little bit out of everyone over driving those who are working into early graves. With the private distribution of wealth manipulating housing, food, career opportunity and medical costs it is no wonder not everyone is having their needs met. The U.S Human Expedition would use volunteers out in the fields we have paid an overabundance to do nothing with to feed the hungry and show the world that our strength is supported by compassion. I cannot stress enough that our government should not be passing this opportunity onto religious organizations. The Expedition would offer dorms or apartments to get people off the streets and allow those who have been struggling against poverty to stabilize themselves and stand on their own feet once more or even for the first time. With the U.S. Human Expedition in place and in co-operation with President Obama's health care plan, insurance underwriters will not have the chance to deny someone life over frivolous paperwork errors and those with pre-existing conditions will not face a lapse in care. During the transition, the U.S. Human Expedition will have experts assigned to cases where legitimate claims are denied in the name of money. At one point the military may be in control of medical care so the private distribution of wealth cannot over capitalize on an individual's right to live at the choke point of medical needs and force the inability to fulfill the unrealistic demands of such monetary costs. In many situations, spouses have spent themselves into homelessness trying to save their dying life partner. There is a stigma and misconception that people who end up homeless did something to deserve to be there. While that may be true in some cases, there are several circumstances that can cause it to happen to almost anyone. I have even heard some call it "natural selection".

While I am on the topic of stigma, I want to take a moment to address the difference between natural selection and what we have going on in our modern day society. Natural selection is survival of the fittest in a dog eat dog world. Here are three terms that better describe what people are confusing as the way it was meant to be.

Economic Selection: Economic Selection is anything where hardships are caused by money and aggravate other problems in life. This could be legal, medical or a combination of several factors. In this title, this form of selection is the one I will talk about the most.

Social Selection: This is often closely tied into it's counter-part of Cultural Selection. Social Selection occurs anytime a society or civilization imposes a standard that influences an individual's capacity to be free or not. Social Selection includes racism, religious prejudice or any kind of hate brought on by groups of people.

Cultural Selection: The main difference between Social Selection and Cultural Selection is that Cultural Selection is often based on tradition and does not always involve religion or even others to occur. For example, Hara-Kiri in Japan.

In order to restore the power we once had as a country, we must restore the strength and pride of our people. A government is only as strong as its population. Protecting individualism is what freedom is all about. While our people remain under financial assault, we risk losing everything all those who worked, fought and died before us gave us to have. I am here to help you help me make sure that all those who have sacrificed for the good of others and the progress of our greatness did not do so in vane. Many will try to smear me and bring whatever methods to the table they see fit to prevent this change from taking place. Misinformation will be on the rise and the only way we can see the truth is to seek it for ourselves. With 40 to 60 working hours a week, it is hard for many to participate as it takes the majority of the energy they have to get by and make ends meet. The U.S. Human Expedition would reduce the workloads of people so that we can become a more realistic civilization and can begin to part from being an almost purely money influenced republic. When the population has the time and the focus to be more involved, corruption will be more noticeable as people will be able to actively hunt those who mean to cheat and deceive the masses so that they can punish those violators accordingly. By ending this angle of unmeasured waste all the aspects of our system such as education, public safety, scientific advancement and park preservation will see all their budget cuts replaced with funds that will allow progressive development and new careers. Once people have their needs fulfilled and maintained, the statistical likeliness they will engage in illegal activity will dramatically decline. I will demonstrate this in various ways throughout this publication. It will reduce substance abuse, violence and unplanned pregnancies. As a result, criminally-based factions will find it increasingly harder to recruit to their causes. Once the U.S. Human Expedition has done this on a global scale, it will also have the same effect on terrorists groups, drug cartels and even other countries.

The United States Human Expedition will check and balance money by eliminating the leverage it has over human need by addressing the lapse of food, water, shelter and medical care for many. It will reduce our spending of social security by providing for those who are in the program at cost instead of overpaying the private sector when our budget is already too far in debt. It can be a way to get our population a suitable college education without always facing a risk of life or death for those with no scholarships or money to fall back on. Hearts and minds cannot be won with military prowess alone. We must show our genuine righteousness through compassion and exercise finesse with our lethal force. We cannot pretend that we represent justice when innocent people are dying without due process, U.S. Citizens or not. We will reduce collateral damage by reducing the likeliness of conflict at the source. Through this idea and systematic change, we can realistically achieve worldwide peace and enter into a golden age only spoken of in legends.

Back to Index

Chapter Two: Current Lapse of Needs

The terrorist attacks on the United States that took place on September 11, 2001 have left our economy heavily damaged, effects felt even to this day. Many experts claimed that the war on terrorism and the extra government spending would pull our economic structure out of it's decline but it did everything except that. Unemployment as far as the government has been able to measure is at a steady 8-9% on average across the country. Keep in mind that is for those who are actively collecting unemployment and does not calculate those who are still literally left without work once their benefits run dry. Food charities collecting donations around the country also use the alarming statistic that at least one out of every six people of the United States is facing hunger. With over 15% of our population facing hunger and likely not having much income; if any, that turns to counter-productive aspects of life to find a means to an end. As a result of the poverty-based variables around hunger and homelessness increasingly rising, so is our crime rate just as many law enforcement budgets across the country are being dangerously cut back. The private distribution of wealth through corporations constantly motivate their higher level employees or executives to find ways to undercut the bottom dollar and make their profit margins look bigger even if they actually are not. They show no mercy when it comes to their own promotions even though it affects so many more who are positioned below them. The more this happens the faster this effect spreads throughout local and state economies. The worst part is since those making such decisions, get rewarded over being punished for their inhumane actions. While the United States government does nothing to regulate corporations that cheat those who made it possible for those in control to achieve their success, passively appears to be supporting and maybe even encouraging such unethical ways of business. As a result, a movement called Occupy Wall Street had become very popular worldwide and not without good reason.

Occupy Wall Street provides us with an opportunity to make good on all the bad that has taken place. A part of the movement is made up of People of the United States and if you listen all they ask for is a realistic chance to thrive. With all the wealth and money of the United States, there is no reason for this much of our population to do without. There are too many jobs that ask for too much and pay too little. Corporations are outsourcing of jobs to lower costs and are in turn, also forcing down the standards of living for hard working people in the United States. People who are proving their loyalty to any given employer are finding that all their efforts mean nothing to these corporations when the time comes to provide them with raises, benefits or retirement options. The problem is not that there are not enough resources; but, that the resources are being horded by those who do not need them and have way more than any person could ever ask for. For all the talking about how change is going to be brought about to deal with the lobbyists and the sell outs in Washington D.C., we are still waiting for viable action. I have made several attempts to bring this idea to President Barack Obama with no success or luck getting it beyond the secret service screening process. Those who read this will be helping me find out if our government is actually functional.

We should not take the formation of movements like Occupy lightly. It is a sign that people even in their darkest hours, are becoming more vigilant and ready to partake in the festivity of bringing change. Sometimes people come to the conclusion where if something needs to be done right, it needs to be done by oneself. By choosing to ignore such pleas for help and mercy, we will only create hate that can only be fed by vengeance. A civil war in the United States would be devastating considering the size of the population and the fact it will likely kill a similar or higher percentage of people than what was seen during the civil war between the Union and the Confederates. That kind of conflict will likely kill between 20-25% of our roughly 320 million people. Considering advancement in methods of killing and technology, we could face an even more catastrophic number. We have far bigger threats to address as a country than to do that much damage to ourselves over resources we all already know are there and are just not being properly harnessed.

In 2003, the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency released a report stating that if the United States was invaded by an enemy force of any kind, it would be up to the civilian population to quell the invasion. Please tell me how our people are going to defend themselves when an alarming percentage of them are already having a hard enough time getting the supplies they need in life. California would be a likely invasion point and has one of the most unforgiving economies in the Union. Sacramento being occupied by an enemy force would likely make the U.S. dollar worth as much as the German currency at the end of the first chapter of the modern world war. There is no recovering from that once that happens if money maintains it's leverage over human need. I will cover this national security issue in more detail in chapter five; yet, I mention it because there is a huge need-based issue around it too. Lack of resources takes away from combat and productivity effectiveness as does disarming our people with unconstitutional weapons laws.

We would be able to close the gap of our debts with the U.S. Human Expedition by becoming resourceful in the market as a government. The only way to establish economic control at this point would be to participate in the market as a dominating entity; but, only with essentials. A good portion of our spending is on Social Security which every recipient of is being capitalized off by the private sector every step of the way. Our government can care for those people being involved in those markets for about $150-$250 a month each instead of paying over $800 a month and also paying private landlords the leftovers of section 8 vouchers.

At this point it is obvious to many that our infrastructure is tearing apart at the seams and so many wonder what it is we will do to prevent the fall out of our own destruction. Some believe that there is a plan in place to keep things from becoming to a certain level of despair while others believe we are being led down the path we are on intentionally for some sinister reason beyond our understanding. September 11th happened to make us aware a threat exists that we could not be directly told about. It is up to us on our own to discover what that threat is. What we are experiencing is the evolution of war and how it is no longer always fought with firearms, soldiers, bombs or drones. The most effective weapons are the ones that people do not know exist.

Back to Index

Chapter Three: Foreign Policy and Military Strategy

I do not write this as a stranger to how unpopular the idea of foreign aid is to the People of the United States. Just about every President in the last twenty years at some point or another has had to give a speech about how they are managing the budget and not giving away our hard earned progress to those who do not deserve it. The United States Human Expedition is not going to be a free hand out. It is a way for us to make more allies than enemies. It is an investment cost worth paying for. In just about every military occupation we have engaged in since the end of the second chapter of our modern world war, we have been challenged and resisted. With the help of the U.S. Human Expedition, we will find ourselves welcomed with open arms for the first time in a long time in some areas.

Many people have heard of Alexander the Great and probably vaguely remember his story from history classes taught in school. I will argue that even some the of wisest scholars still fail to realize what it is that really made him all that great and it is not that he conquered almost all of the ancient world with a mainly melee military; but, how he did it. When a city found out Alexander and his army was on its' way, local people assisted in his efforts and celebrated his arrival because he did more than bring armed soldiers and endless violence to those who rivaled his campaign. Alexander brought prosperity and everyone in that time frame knew that when Alexander came it meant that they had full stomachs, a place to sleep and a new found purpose in life that did not previously exist. This very same variable is also why Alexander did not very often ever need to back track and could keep moving forward. He empowered the populations of cities he previously invaded to protect this new found glory in his absence even after replenishing the ranks of the fallen among those who marched in his campaign. Alexander the Great has already proven the strategy behind the U.S.H.E will work and effectively. Never since Alexander, has Earth seen a military achievement that came close to what he had accomplished even though he was limited by his time frame.

We have seen similar effects of such variables applied on some smaller levels when a certain type of leadership favors one race, faction or ideals over others. Germany in their darkest hours following the first chapter of the world war dove deeper into despair under Hitler, all because he revived their spirits and economy for the next conflict. He found a way to put food back on the table and restored some prosperity to his people when they had lost all they once knew. He turned their hate into a vengeful wrath that the world is still scarred from. In Vietnam, the United States military targeted food supplies in an attempt to reduce enemy efforts against us. This had its draw backs because the civilian population, much of which tried to remain passive, lost crop stock after crop stock to our bombings and raids. We struck without proof in certain areas because no proof was left behind to suggest if any area or village was for, or against us. Due to the turmoil caused by this, we lost an incalculable amount of direly needed potential allies. Naturally when people had nothing left because we came in and destroyed everything they had, Ho Chi Minh's forces welcomed them with open arms and used those examples to rally countless to his cause. He did not dramatically improve their lives; but, he was there for them and helped how he could when we did not. Militarily we out killed and out fought the Vietcong along with leaving behind serious collateral damage in the wake of our occupation. Vietnam was not about a show of strength as much as it was an attempt to bring a balance to the injustice caused by the private distribution of wealth. We failed to achieve our purpose of fighting communism in Vietnam because we did not display grace and compassion when it was needed most.

In the early 1990's, the world witnessed the events that took place in Somalia of Africa as portrayed by television news. The United States was involved as a part of a joint operation with the United Nations to end genocide level famine caused by militia leaders of that country. Initially, we sent in the Marine Corps to make sure the food got to the hungry. During the time they spent there they remained unchallenged until withdrawn. Some elite military units stayed behind and observed other food drops where they had to helplessly gaze at militant groups seize our aid supplies in the name of the leadership we were working against. Innocent civilian casualties took place and due to United Nations guidelines, the United States soldiers were forced to remain passive due to the rules of engagement. We literally watched our compassion get stripped away from us and used against us by enemy combatants. I would argue that the animosity generated over allowing such injustice, allowing the enemy to become the populations food source again and a combination of a drug given out to people by enemy leadership is what caused the events of the battle in Mogadishu where two black hawk helicopters were brought down. It would have seriously burdened our enemy morale and resources if our soldiers were allowed to protect the people and the goods we meant to provide for them.

What allowed us to win the second part of the world war was our productivity and resourcefulness. We had a stronger system than that of the German Nazis. The United States Government now is in over 15 trillion dollars in debt. A fair amount of that debt is owed to the Chinese who is taking the idea I am suggesting and using it in a mirror image fashion. The United States Human Expedition would use a fundamental of communism to check and balance our capitalism and empower our freedom. China is using capitalism to vaguely check and balance their communism and is funneling all of their financial gain from that momentum, into their government which allows it to be a stand alone super corporation. The productivity of their people is far exceeding what is being spent by the government to work people in the factories making various things that are imported into the United States among other places around the world. They feed their people and provide their needs and the people know they are adding to their government's capacity to make China a global power. With the government reaping all of the profits the way private corporations are here in our country, they will truly be a force to be reckoned with. They have a severe numerical advantage in terms of population size to begin with. With how selfish and divided private corporations are, they will not be there to defend us against such a massive enemy if for some reason peace cannot be maintained between us.

We do not want our government so financially broke that we need to rely on private military corporations because when that happens, we are no longer a democracy or republic. We would be nothing more than sell outs and at the rate those troops would come at us in waves, we will need to be way more coordinated than any corporation or group of corporations could ever be just defending themselves. As barbaric as the idea of one race being more superior over another is, there are still plenty of people out in the world of every race that think that way. I would not put it past the Chinese to establish a global dynasty in the absence of the United States as a regulator and medium of freedom. Our government is getting to the point where it is trying to pretend that it dictates more authority than it literally has in power. Without eliminating our debt and building massive resourceful reserves, our national security remains compromised.

In the times we live in now, the power structure is fluctuating continuously and one important aspect that keeps the peace at the moment between large factions and countries is the balance between certain levels of that power between the most powerful. Sadly it is in our nature as humans to take an inch and go a mile with any advantage we find. One powerful group or faction of people getting too powerful and striking down the next strongest rival setting an example for others means we can fall into a reign of darkness through dictatorship. People in the world have grown to see the United States as a form of evil because of how we have used the medium of our money in the past to get things to done. We have done some mean things to many types of people in our long history but that does not mean we cannot learn from our mistakes and change our ways. Money at this moment is our dictator and is a literal measurement of freedom while it continues to maintain leverage over human need or act as a "legal" form of free speech. This fact is what supports what certain people think in terms of us being led down the path we are walking intentionally, given that they do not find it likely that our people are becoming weaker by accident. Our Founding Fathers would be disappointed that in other places in the world, we are working people at unfair wages on plantations among factories and running their dreams of freedom and prosperity into the ground while waving our star spangled banner on the flag poles. We would not sit on our hands if such folly was being done to us and for someone to think that anyone else would allow that is simply foolish. That is not the United States we were meant to become. There are more people getting involved as a result of how hard things are becoming.

With our technology and broader social understanding, what I am suggesting is realistic as long as we work together and do it the right way. Why would the greatest country on this planet not do this once it becomes more than a dream, but a plan that just needs the fine details and minor kinks worked out. There is no better way to secure our own greatness in history than to lead the charge for world peace. The U.S. Human Expedition would be a conflict deterrent because as long as we maintain and regain our strength, the likeliness any country or allegiance of countries will be storming our shores or the shores of our allies will decline. The goal is that one day we will stop working against one another from other sides of the planet to one day join forces for exploring space and pushing humanities limitations to a whole new level, one that is not motivated by destructive ends or profit margins.

Back to Index

Chapter Four: Chaos Variables and Psychological Warfare

I will be discussing how one can roughly calculate a draft-type formula to see how this is and is not working in our favor. Since we do not have all the variables, all that can be done is applying equation numbers within the boundaries on one's own life to understand how it is all these things personally influence you and the ones you love. Before I begin to discuss the lengthy set of characteristics that push and pull us all around our lives more against our own will than in our desires, I will once again make reference to successful measures in place that support this works.

One of our major tactical advantages over an enemy as the United States is the fact we are more intimidating to just about every other country on the planet with few exceptions than most other countries. It is no secret that if you sever the supply lines to the front lines, combat effectiveness drastically declines. It is part of how Operation: Desert Storm became known to some as the "100 Hour War". The majority of the Iraqi forces in Kuwait at the time took what they could and tried to flee back to Baghdad when they found out the United States military was coming. Our Apache helicopters littered the freeway they used and needless to say few survived. In other areas, those who did follow the orders of their leadership and did engage in combat did not do so for long as we cornered their supplies to those red zones and locked them down in a choke point so they could not hold out for very long. We attempted to do this very same thing in Vietnam as I mentioned earlier about the bombings and raids of crop fields. The fact Iraq is mostly desert probably played a major role in how we were able to achieve that in the more recent conflict over the one in prior decades. The United States is not being bombarded literally speaking; yet, our monetary system is strangulating some so much that their supply lines are effectively being cut. To view this kind of result as anything other than financial assault is inaccurately classifying the threat we are currently plagued with. Divide the thought, conquer the mind.

The Santa Cruz Police Department in California has adapted a program due to the budget cuts and reduced human resources to effectively predict how and where criminal activity will strike next. In an article written by Mike Cassidy in the San Jose Mercury News July 29, 2011, he explains how Santa Clara University assistant math professor George Mohler came up with away to apply statistics of criminal activity in certain given areas to come up with hot spots of next likely targets. Naturally this does not guarantee any amount of success yet has proven itself as the Santa Cruz Police have been changing patrol routes and making numerous arrests based on the visual imagery mapped out by Mohler's design. This very same concept can be used to effectively predict the factors that provoke many people into criminal activity and violence. Taking a preventive cost-effective medical type of approach with human needs can solve problems before they become issues. Human beings are not born evil and would not take an excessively unnecessary risk without some hope of a supreme reward. When faced with the mercilessness of poverty and the well being of one's family on the line, there are few people who would not cross those lines for the ones they cherish most. The issues that lead people down this path can be prevented and the productivity we lose as a society when one does can be reclaimed to be added to our renewed greatness.

Money has leverage over three major aspects of need in the majority of everyone's life. There are some out there who can survive outside the bounds of civilization but for the rest of humanity, humans are dependent on everyone playing their roles in their local economies. Human beings need the nourishment of food, water and air. We need the protection of shelter from the elements. At some point or another we all also need medical care to maintain our well being because there is things in life, no one no matter how wise or cautious a person is, will not ever see coming. All these angles are being used in negative ways against all middle-class and below people among a population. Sometimes one of these aspects is so burdening people literally do not survive. Many who do even then may never recover from the experience they had facing such hardship either in physical and or mental ways. Most mental issues from lapse of these kinds of challenges come from loss of sleep. When all these things are considered and put into perspective of how many of our fellow people are enduring the nature of these chaos variables, it truly is disgusting that not only has it got this bad but that it can be stopped and yet it is not.

Nourishment

Grocery stores around the world and across our country have a ridiculous waste ratio and throw away dumpster after dumpster of food. These businesses just write this waste off their taxes as a business expense. I have made mention already of how our government pays subsidies to many landowners not to utilize their fields to cultivate food even though we lose a child in the world to starvation every 15 seconds. By the time you finish reading this chapter it will mean that a couple of school buses worth full of children who never got a fair chance in life have passed away. In that same 15 second time frame, we are losing another child to dehydration. Double up the visual you had on the first example I just cited. Those are two very preventable causes of death and are likely among the most painful ways to die. We are paying for the control that the private sector has over the food resources on us with our own tax dollars. It cannot be argued that the resources are not available. They are very available but due to the nature of money and the thirst for profit those resources are not made accessible to all.

Religious factions around the world take in donations and use a portion of what is received to buy food which they give away to those who will hear their messages of faith. Catholic organizations in the United States are no exception and have a type of dominance here over other faiths. There are many who are needy; yet, do not want to hear what they believe to be nonsense from the preacher with free food and choose to go hungry exercising their first amendment rights. People who do not already believe are not going to start or pretend to start because you offer them a hand out. Not all children get in the car with strangers when offered candy. There are some countries in the world that do not yet have a United States embassy in their borders however the United States does have an embassy at the Vatican in Rome which is considered its own sovereign territory. Some religious organizations only have what power they do not because they have the divine favor of what they worship, but because they display more compassion than many other factions that try and utilize a person for time or money. Even terrorists groups use this angle to recruit suicide bombers among others to its causes as they make the promise that they will provide for one and their family when nothing else will. They show that they make good on those promises so that they can display to others they are worthy of their word and purpose. Our government is losing out on this power gain by not expressing this kind of compassion to its people among the others around the world. Even though helping people is costly and would likely be unpopular at first especially to the rich, it will still be cheaper than funding wars to fight all the people we could have simply choose to assist instead. A day worth of funding into the Department of Defense has been said by many to be able to feed the world for a year.

Too many people consider poverty to be a form of natural selection when it is in reality a mean hybrid of cultural and economic selection. There is nothing natural about what humans are doing to each other in the name of profit or having a better life for themselves.

A lack of having the right amount of food and water causes grotesque undernourishment. Children are taught in schools about the 2,000 calorie a day diet and the different groups of the food pyramid. We already know how important it is to consume the proper rations so we can grow and stay strong. As a whole, I think most people lack the understanding of how dangerous it is to do without even for shorter periods of time. There does come a point through when some people have tolerated too much damage from the lack of nourishment and often never truly recover.

Shelter

When the United States was expanding out beyond the original 13 states, people had the Homestead Act. This legislation put exploring the west and personal independence in realistic reach for just about anyone. Once you found a place and established your home, which often people built with their own hands, you got a legitimate claim on the surrounding area where you could exercise your right to grow crops and do what you want with the land within legal limits. We face the fact that just about everywhere in our country has been claimed and someone somewhere has rights to just about every square inch. Our Founding Fathers would be suggesting we do the very thing that I am proposing if they could see the world today.

Many homes in the United States are vacant due to the way banks and financial institutions handle their lending practices. On one side we have all the people who buy up homes and spend small amounts to make it look mildly more presentable and then raise the price way up when they go to put the house back on the market. Sometimes it does not always work out but when it does, they make a hefty profit. Every month or few months they do this again in a rinse and repeat fashion. This kind of behavior creates inflation in the real estate market. I am not suggesting that the United States Human Expedition will be issuing homes. Living free through the expedition will mean living in an apartment or dormitory type environment and owning a home will still be one's motivation to get out and get things done for the economy. People with disabilities this way will always have a place to go if all else will fail. Right now there are many who have crippled themselves serving private corporations and are literally left with nothing but medical bills to show for it and a Social Security system that holds out long enough that it is unlikely with certain injuries they will survive the process. The people who are hurt on jobs providing the progress for our country should be shown more honor for their sacrifice than that. The nature of our society sees it more advantageous to use those people as an example of what you do not want to become even though many who got that way were as safe as they could be. This will also help teenagers who are becoming adults in their transition from out of being under the wings of their parents. Many teenagers get told by their parents that when they turn 18, they are on their own and that they as the parents have done their duty in raising them to their legal obligation. By providing shelter those who attend college or volunteer for the Expedition can go through their education without having to risk pivotal points of their development to conflicts with poverty. Many of the corporate dead end job traps set in place take advantage of the fact that young individuals need a way to make money. Some fall into prostitution or sell illegal drugs due to the fact the job market is slim and many graduating high school seniors are not able find work due to the issue so many with more time and experience are also fighting for the very same occupations. Having a safe place to sleep at night is one of the most direly needed stepping stones to a successful and healthy life.

One of the ways that our real estate market took a major hit was that too many people were convinced it was in their best interest to refinance their homes into liquid assets. Doing so meant getting a new appraisal on their properties which some agents made sure they had their favorite appraisers come in and give a quote that was a bit higher than the property was likely literally worth on the current market. With this extra money, people spent more recklessly not realizing the liquid assets in the long run would not last even though it seemed like a huge amount of cash in the bank at the time. With bills going up and many people losing their jobs to layoffs and cut backs, a decent amount of those people ultimately lost their homes and everything they spent all their lives and careers working for. Due to this business practice alone, our government probably saw an expected amount of divorces, homicides and suicides among an increase in criminal behavior. Those who sold this product in its various forms did nothing but reap the rewards with the CEOs who thought this scheme up. The architects of this plan knew well in advance what the punishment would be to the people on the receiving end. Even after all the catastrophic damage this has done to our people the most action we have seen is minor changes in certain laws and a failing set of stimulus packages. The people who got rich off this are literally, even though passively, guilty of all the damage that has ensued because of their business actions and none of them have been formally charged for the harm they have done. The justice of our legal system is so blind that more often than not, victims get pounded by the hammer that is meant to protect them.

In just about every city or town you go to the visual can be seen where a parent has a child and they are digging through the garbage cans for whatever they can find. In some major cities they have little camps under freeways and from time to time, the police come and run them off for a while. A child growing up under those circumstances stands little to no chance of becoming more than what they are raised to believe they are worth. Mentally, they believe that sometimes they do not even deserve better yet they committed no crime to this Earth besides presenting themselves to their parents once born and loving them for what life they are being given. The residual of the negative energy generated from such turmoil can only be dealt with by addressing the issues that cause them which is the lapse of fulfilled need present in most people.

Health Care

Everyone is susceptible to getting sick at one point or another in our lives. Most people get the cold or the flu at least once or twice a year. When I was a child and I found out that George Washington died from a sore throat, I didn't believe my teacher. We take good health for granted. Simple ailments do have the power to kill people if they go untreated when someone's immune system cannot recover on it's own. The science and human resources that goes into the health care field though is one of the most overpriced markets that we face and yet has a critical advantage over the lives of so many. In our country we have insurance companies which are supposed to be able to for a small amount every month and a co-pay when you visit, help negate the overwhelming costs when such needs do arise. Once again however, those who cheat the people by raising the bar of the bottom dollar, have created its' own prize where unnatural injustice is tolerated.

For those who have not yet seen any of Michael Moore's movies, I highly recommend you watch "Sicko" even if you cannot stand the guy. You will see case after case of people who have their legitimate claims denied by insurance companies because they have underwriters comb through each case and try and find frivolous errors that would legally alleviate the insurance company of the financial obligation to pay on their claims. In many of the cases in that movie, people die as a result and if they do not find death than the life they face is surely not any easier. One of the worse types of insurance policies people have suffered the wrath of is HMOs and the many stipulations of various types of conditions that are not covered. The scenario like the one seen in "John Q." with Denzel Washington is more common than the average person would likely imagine. It creates the illusion that people are paying for the coverage they will need until one day they become the unlikely statistic and discover that they or a loved one needs an operation that will cost them more than everything they could ever hope to make in a lifetime and that they will be forced to watch the one in need that they care for, inevitably die slowly.

President Obama has a health care plan in place under the Affordable Care Act. It allows people with pre-existing conditions to get coverage when without it for many with certain conditions, getting coverage would be next to impossible. The Congress now on Capitol Hill has vowed to repeal this health care bill, even though in many ways it is a step forward, because of the one step back that it will obligate everyone at some point to have some kind of coverage. The argument is made that everyone who drives a car is obligated to have liability insurance. The counter argument to that is driving a car is a privilege and it is due to the risk to others that makes that kind of insurance being mandatory necessary. I will step out and say in support of President Obama that life is not only a privilege but a right. With the U.S. Human Expedition involved in issuing health care out and making sure it's affordable until they one day have the means to provide it as an organization by itself, it will help lower costs, create jobs and ensure that everyone is covered. President Trump would only need to merge the current health care plan into the mission of the Expedition. Every citizen in the United States is not only entitled to a life, but one that is of liberty in the pursuit of happiness.

Hearts and Minds

Once we have our country taken care of domestically, we can branch out into the places our military already occupies and maybe even some places that wish to develop their own check and balance to money with our help. This is the only way we will ever hope to be able to stand up another democracy in another country like ours that will actually survive on its own at one point. We can show the world that we are not to be feared, as we are now, even though we will not demonstrate any lack of strength. In some areas of the world the U.S. Human Expedition will need the other branches of the military to act as a security force but likely will not need much as the population that anticipates our arrival will come to our defense when they know in advance we come to genuinely help. There are battles in the past fought by various forces including Alexander's that did not even need to be fought because the odds of resistance victory was so slim the opposition leadership would not even try. There is no reason for one to want to surrender their power to death when they can make the simple changes that is expected of them. This is how the royal family in England was able to stay in power after the fall of French monarchies during the French Revolution. The king of England at that time knew if he did not bridge the gap between his power and the will of the people, the monarchic structure that he ruled would face the same destiny. This is how the British Parliament came to be, he volunteered a portion of his power so that he can keep some of what it is he wanted to have instead of losing it all. Once the U.S. Human Expedition has set a couple of successful examples and shows that the U.S. is not going to back stab them with cloak and dagger trained spooks, people will not have issues in working with us to achieve a greater means of life. With people loving the United States around the world instead of vigorously hating us, the people of the United States will not be at as much risk traveling the world and the State Department will have far less diplomatic hassles to deal with. By taking this military strategy to a global level, we can effectively undercut the ability of any other factions to recruit to any means other than peace. Terrorist groups, drug cartels, mafias, religious organizations and even other countries will feel the effects of such a demonstration of power through smaller numbers in both resources and humans taking a role among their factions. Once countries who have received our help generate their own surplus, they keep a large portion and use the extra to feed into the momentum of what our purpose is towards world peace.

The American Dream will no longer be an ideal just for the people of the United States, it will become the Human Dream like the one spoken of by Martin Luther King Jr. I sincerely believe through something like the Human Expedition, that one day we can take total strangers that at any other time in history would be bitterly sworn enemies and that they would hold hands with one another living life as brothers and sisters.

Back to Index

Chapter Five : What Our Constitutional Republic has Become

I cannot stress enough that any democracy or republic is only as strong as its people. In July 2012, a man went into a movie theater during a "Dark Knight Rises" premiere and opened fire on the crowd of movies goers. He killed and injured quite a few people. The tragic part is that politicians will play a sick game of calling for more gun laws and furthering the stripping of the public's 2nd amendment rights. That is the worst thing that can happen to the memory of those who are permanently injured and have lost their lives. Fire arms are weapons that do serious harm and kill people but it is our policy around handling them that increases the rate in the nature of how they are misused. The individual who did the shooting, as insane as he may be, would not have done it like that if he knew there were good odds of other people besides him in the theater being armed. Had so much as three or four people in the crowd had their own fire arms, that man would have been dead or incapacitated before he could reload, if he would have even made it that long. The only people who abide by gun laws are ones that do not break the law to begin with. The fact that weapons laws are in place is why so many people died that night. Possessing a weapon does not make you a criminal although how you use one will, if you do not exercise proper safety measures and finesse. No one in the movie theater had the capacity to defend themselves without police other than the shooter himself.

Benjamin Franklin once thought the government would need to be overthrown about every 20 years or so on average. Naturally for the sake of progress, that was unrealistic and throughout the history of the United States there has only been one civil war. The right to bear arms was placed second in the Bill of Rights after careful consideration because the Founding Fathers believed it to be the most important right behind freedom of speech. Without the population being able to defend themselves from those trying to persecute them, they would have never made it into the position to write the Constitution of the United States to begin with. In the times they lived in, they had the same percentage of individuals who were reckless among those who were careless about whom and what they hurt, just like we do today. The only difference is that odds were if you engaged in violence in a public place, someone with vigilance would put you down on the spot. As shown in many western films, a roughneck walks into a bar with his gun belt on and sees just about everyone else in the bar equally armed. If any drunkards pulled their side-arms inside the bar, the bartender would pull out his shotgun and let you have it if you opened fire. If you were just threatening he would say to take it outside. The fact everyone was armed was the peacekeeper. There was not very many law enforcement around because people defended themselves mainly. Not everyone has the capacity to fight but when push comes to shove, when people absolutely have no other choice they will if they have the means. In this day in age it is easy to terrorize massive groups of people because many abide by the laws making increasingly easier for those who do not to stand there and boundlessly kill with no resistance. The government was never meant to become the shield for the people like that. In fact back in the day, the sheriffs of the west usually had their own posses for when the law was challenged, full of local civilians.

People will make the argument that having so many people running around with guns is very dangerous. I will respond by saying it is more dangerous to disarm those who would end the violence because they would have the option shooting the ones who began it. We have modern day forensics so when all the smoke clears and the dust settles, investigators know how to get to the truth of what happened for the most part. Certain types of events do need to have tight security like football games and other sporting events. Places that do not have their own security though need to allow people to act as their own enforcers to enable the peacekeeper effect and greatly reduce the odds of violence happening at all. We would experience less violence if those who find the urge to senselessly harm others know that there are many more out there ready to return the favor, if they bring the heat. We have plenty of fire arms in circulation now in the United States; yet, with all the limitations it does give the honest civilian a cruel disadvantage to follow the laws, when dealing with individuals and groups that give the law no regard.

Weapons laws not only for public safety reasons are unconstitutional; but, for national security ones as well. If an allegiance of countries stormed our shores and they started in California which has some of the harshest gun laws in the Union, a viable enemy force would laugh at the majority of the resistance they would face. Bolt action rifles in California are limited to three round clips. Our enemy in the event of invasion, for each soldier, would have 30 round clips in automatic rifles and be packing as much ammunition as they can possibly carry. Any type of military invasion attempted on the United States would also come sweeping in wave after wave. Any city or town on the way from near the coast to their target which would likely be the capitol, Sacramento, would endure a majority of its' population dying.

I made mention of a C.I.A. report in Chapter Two that stated the civilian population would need to defend themselves and assist in quelling the invasion like what sheriffs had their posses for back in the day. The weapons laws in place metaphorically speaking, ties one of everyone's hands behind their backs while getting ready to deal with an enemy that will be stepping up to the plate in their prime. Do not get me wrong, I feel for those who have lost loved ones and have been victimized by fire arms in some form or another. I understand that there are some people that fire-arms just should not belong in the hands of. Nonetheless logically, it makes no sense to disarm ourselves to make the ones who can stop those kinds of people on the spot, helpless. No matter what those kinds of people will always have a way to do harm to others and we the people, must be the check and balance to that to reduce how often it happens.

This applies to the U.S. Human Expedition because there will be places in the world where people will still hate and fear the United States because of our long trail of blood left in the wake of past conflicts. The Expedition will have a purely non-combative purpose; but, that does not mean that Explorers will not have the means to protect themselves both at home and overseas. In fact I would like to see the "Rules of Engagement" modified so we do not see a repeat of the enemy seizing our aid like what happened in Somalia in the early 1990's. We must be able and legally allowed to issue orders that will protect the mission objectives and the people we are reaching out to help. By sitting back and allowing injustice to take place with no course of action, makes us guilty by association. I find it odd how often police officers like to use that term, except fail to understand how it should also apply within the government. In that kind of situation if you are not somehow part of the solution, you are part of the problem and that is exactly what the Somalis saw when our helicopters circled over head and allowed militias to seize the supplies meant for them. Due to the fact not everyone is capable of defending themselves when they are poverty stricken and vulnerable, coming looking for trouble should mean they are going to find it. Allowing an enemy force to take our goods and appear superior or compassionate in our place contradicts our operational purpose. If civilians are being murdered in the presence of Expedition forces, they would naturally call in other branches of the military for support but would have the option to engage the enemy on sight in the mean time. It would be up to the highest rank on the scene to determine if there is a tactical advantage to fighting the enemy. Each explorer will have to make their own personal decision on if they would arm themselves or not and either way, no one would think down on them. I am predicting odds are one out of fifty or sixty explorers would actually be armed in more peaceful areas where occasional violence does occur. In more dangerous areas probably one out of every five or ten explorers will have firearms. The situation both at home and abroad is way more dangerous when it is public knowledge that so few would be armed; if any, that no one can do nothing about someone going in and just laying waste.

We must lead by example. The use of any deadly force in any aspect of life must be done with careful consideration. The use of such force in the right situation is only way to go to prevent any further loss of life. Safety courses and additional training would be required for those who do arm up. Like in any life and death occupation, deciding who lives and who dies is not a game and does come with punishments if you make a terrible judgment call or do something crude just because you can. It would be a huge mistake on our part if we created the U.S. Human Expedition and did not allow our explorers their rights in overseas locations. Disarming them in situations where they need to be able to defend themselves would only make us look weak among foolish. We must protect our people and our purpose for what it is we will be doing or we might as well stay home if we cannot do it right. There is no excuse with what I have gone over to send any of our people into a situation where we know in advance they will have no chance of success or survival. Each area and population we are trying to assist much have a bit of study done and a mild understanding of how to communicate with the local people so we or they do not become uncomfortable or hostile. We must show respect to the people we are trying to help if we hope to receive any in return. Sometimes like with investing money, you must invest time and interest in an area to achieve the goals we will be setting out to make happen. The only way to yield the return we will be seeking is to make sure we address their needs. We will only be covering the needs, for everyone will need to earn what it is that they want. This is how the system will still have an effective level of productivity. By doing so, one day they will see to it that our needs are addressed as well and they would not find it cumbersome to do so. We will not need to take much; if any, at all at one point. We ourselves must remember that we must not ask for more than we need for the same reason that we will not be providing to them more than they need. Helping each other get what we need gives everyone the chance to at one point earn what they want.

Back to Index

Chapter Six: True Democracy

Benjamin Franklin once said that the idea of true democracy was impossible. With the lack of technology and industrialization, it would make sense how someone of his time frame would think so. To this very day there are many that would agree with him thinking that our current "republic" is as close to perfection as we can possibly come but I am here to tell them they are wrong. This would not happen overnight and I know with how vulnerable our computer systems still are that its' likely still decades away. Imagine if everyone had a hand held device that was their voice into their government. People on a daily basis would get notifications on new issues, law proposals and current events. Every week or every month based on the schedule of the people and the level of law involved, we would be voting to pass or decline such measures. A Congress would only be in place to write the laws; but, would need the people to actually pass them. In our current way of doing things, Congress has too much power in the sense that they write laws they fall in love with and pass them even if they are really not in the best interest of our people.

The United States Human Expedition would be a key element in getting humanity from the way we are now to establishing that kind of government. With how over worked and exhausted our populations are for many countries around the world, it is no wonder why more people are not involved. There are two main reasons people do not participate in their government's functions and I already just stated the first one. The second one is that some people do not believe in how our government operates to begin with and would prefer to display that they are free of the blood on their hands by refusing to vote. The fact that usually not even half of the population votes in any given election says something about how many people make the time to care and believe enough in our government. This is an indicator that our government in all it's might and power does not have enough public support to consider it's work effective. Due to this, many have argued that we are not even a definable republic given that so little of a percentage of our population is involved and that money has more influence than many within the masses ever could. No matter what people try to call it, right now we are under a "monetary-ocracy". Yes, just like President George W. Bush Jr., I am making up a new word. I do this so I can illustrate to everyone this what we actually are versus what we pretend we are. People have always said that money talks and there are few people that do not listen to it; especially, when it comes in vast amounts. In this very same parallel money votes too, and its votes count for way more than the typical citizens' does.

Our technology is now ahead of it's time and our governmental and economic development is grossly lagging behind. The U.S. Human Expedition would offer college benefits like other branches of the military. I will leave it up to the government instead suggesting that Explorers should be given the G.I. Bill over its' own alternative. The Expedition would give everyone the chance to be able to attend college by volunteering. This will enable more people to go to school, giving people a sense of pride that they will have a college education and be making a pivotal difference in the world we live in, both at the same time.

As time goes on, our society needs to become more democratic instead of less. When world populations hit a certain size which it is close to, being properly organized with our resources and way of life is going to become a matter of survival. We must socially advance with our digital technology or face the type of consequence that comes with handling a weapon you do not know how to hold in a safe manner. The way our people have handled our government is definitely hurting ourselves.

Back to Index

Chapter Seven: Passing the Human Expedition Act

It will take an act of Congress or an executive order from the President to begin this initiative. There is an online petition at moveon.org that is now collecting signatures to suggest to the U.S. government to check and balance money. Once this petition is full with 350,000 signatures, a petition will be created at the official whitehouse.gov website that will need 100,000 signatures to get the idea on the table, if President Trump decides to handle it the way President Obama did. I have no idea how they will respond. At the moment until the Expedition becomes a legal reality, there is not much else an individual can do to support the idea beyond discussing the fundamentals, brain storming new concepts with others and gathering online signatures.

Only as a whole humanity, do we stand a chance to expand out into the excesses of the space around our planet. The amount of intelligence, time and resources that must be committed into a space program for it to be successful enough to get humans outside of our solar system would have to be one being fed resources from every country and made up of the most brilliant minds this entire world will have to offer. No one country or even small allegiance of countries can do this on their own. To try is to sell ourselves and overall potential short in a most disappointing manner. For those who have seen "Star Trek", Earths Federation represents the humanity of the planet and is a one world government. In the lore of "Star Trek" space exploration really became available to them when they came about the technology to manipulate matter on an atomic level and engineer a machine that can create anything at will. This addressed the issue of resources they faced to push forth for the expansion of the human race beyond our own planet. We face our resources being an issue in these modern times but as I make clear in previous chapters, it is the dysfunctional system of the private distribution of wealth that has us hitting our heads face first on poverty. Once we address these issues of poverty starting with the formation of the U.S. Human Expedition, we will be able to cover the vast of Earth and once we achieve our worlds' peace, we will become a species capable and ready of stellar exploration. This will help us deal with population capacity issues which many scientists say our planet is already beyond its capacity to sustain the current amount of human life.

Earth is truly a sight to be seen even though we make it out to be a smaller world than it actually is. I laughed at the part of the movie "The Truman Show" when he stands up as a boy in a class room and tells the teacher that he wants to be an explorer. The teacher responds by pulling down the world map on a roll off the top of the chalkboard and informs him that he is too late. We do have our work cut out for us as a whole. Just because we can use satellites in orbit from space to visually map out our world does not mean we know all that much about it. It was just last year that NASA announced that it discovered arsenic-based life forms here. We are also discovering and classifying many new types of insects and animals all the time. With the right social structure and economy in place we would be able to grow the rate in which we make those discoveries.

I cannot stress enough how much it would help us to put the ideal of exploration back on the table with serious emphasis. With enough of a push on this fundamental it will decrease the odds of someone just making do with what they are being provided for in the Expedition and sit on their couch their whole lives watching television or playing video games. I believe if people wanted to be a slob and a dead-beat to society that it is their right as a free individual to do so. I really do doubt that many people would once they get too comfortable and bored with the basics. As I went into some detail in chapter four about the shelter aspect of what the Expedition would do and not do, you can in some ways apply that to foods that are hard to come by. The Expedition would provide for needs, not wants. If you still want something you need to go out and serve a purpose to earn it. The Human Expedition is not a free ride for people contrary to what many people will try and label it. There are some types of resources that are limited and those resources do need to be cultivated and maintained with balance somehow. Cosmetic surgeries would be an expense people would pay for out of pocket. Since driving a car is a privilege and not a given right considering how limited fuel sources are seemingly becoming the expedition will not provide that either. The primary service the Expedition would provide our country is generation of surplus to negate all the debt that has haunted us for some time. Helping each other get what we need will help us all get the chance to earn what we want. We all need a fair opportunity in life and most of us in some way or another want to make a positive difference somehow. This is our chance.

With people's needs being addressed and costs being kept low on necessities by the participation of the government because they are in the business of doing so, there will be no need for a minimum wage. Careers and jobs will pay based on business needs as they always are except people will not be forced to do without when a corporation decides they need to cut back on wages or make layoffs. Money will no longer be the wedge that splits families apart. Corporations will have to pay competitively again with their being no shortage in jobs and people making sure the money is worth the time spent out of their lives.

I think ending corporate rights is something we should strongly consider. There is no excuse there are legal entities that exist with special rights while it can be said that our people still struggle for equal rights.

Back to Index

Chapter Eight: Phases of Development and Measuring Progress

The U.S. Human Expedition will evolve throughout the course of its' development. The bigger it gets, the faster some of these changes can happen. Like any good plan, we must make it part of our plan that something will go wrong and not go according to schedule. We should not allow that to dampen our spirits. Any time lines set are more goals than obligations and we will remind each other that as long as we are doing the best we can with what we have, that all that can be done is being done. We will not be able to cater to the needs of everyone right away and there will be growing pains in the process. There is no dishonor in not fulfilling a standard as long as the effort is being made and lives do not hang in the balance.

Phase One: Declaration and Formation

The first part of our journey will be voicing to our government that this is the change we want brought to us as promised. President Obama's campaign slogan was "change" while running against Senator John McCain for office. I have tried on several occasions as I mentioned before to get this idea to the President among other people but had no success. I expect many of the rich of our country to put up a heavy amount of resistance to this idea. I personally will be spending my time if the idea becomes popular quickly enough gathering celebrity endorsements and beginning resource allocation for a head start into the next phase. The most important part of this will be the signing of the online petitions. For those who know in advance that they will want be part of the U.S. Human Expedition as a military volunteer, I would make it advantageous for those who gather signatures in terms of giving those with a minimum amount a jump start on their careers. These individuals would keep copies of their petitions to be ready for the paperwork during entry processing. As taxing as this phase may seem at first, we must not forget that the greater challenges lie ahead. During this time frame the call for the Human Expedition will be nothing more than a political campaign. We move into phase two when Congress and the President of the United States sign an act into law that affirms the United States Human Expedition as a new branch of the military under the Department of Defense and initiates its active service.

Phase Two: Resource Allocation and Domestic Checkpoints

Depending on how long phase one lasts and what kind of endorsements are supporting the U.S. Human Expedition, we will begin recruiting efforts to work the dormant fields that our government has invested into for so many years with no return until now. We can take any charitable capitol and use it to buy what we may need to start with at first and establish our first series of "Domestic Checkpoints". A Human Expedition checkpoint will develop in levels much like the branch itself will grow in phases. Level one is a basic camp at first where people can go to at least get a meal a few times a day and maybe even sleep on cots or in sleeping bags inside tents. A level one checkpoint prepares for level two if the checkpoint is cleared to become a permanent location and construction based volunteers begin building new shelter. Level two checkpoints are when a building is established such as an apartment or dorm. Each level two checkpoint will also have a kitchen in it so people have a nearby place to go for their meals. Supply missions will bring in goods to checkpoints to keep them up and running. Domestic checkpoint supply missions will usually just by delivery trucks like how we do business normally bringing in supplies to restaurants and stores. In more rural areas or more threatening environments around the world when we expand out, supply missions will come with heavier risk. A level three checkpoint is not much different from level two, level three checkpoints will be a supply depot or focal point to a smaller town or village. If a checkpoint is ready to expand beyond level three it will simply become a base and will have everything that would come with being on a military installation. Expedition bases will all cultivate their own resources at one point. Police departments would have detachments out of the domestic bases and work with liaisons to make sure the peace is being kept during distribution and in living environments provided by the federal government. Any criminal activity engaged in on federal property would be a federal offense like any other federal facility. If the Department of Defense saw it fit to change some non-combative M.O.S.s over to the Human Expedition, it may make us more welcoming in places we already occupy. We can if approved by the right authorities create overseas checkpoints in such areas to see how people warm up to the new way of us doing things. Once we have secured 90% of our domestic population from poverty and have a few successful outreach checkpoints established, we will shift into the beginning of phase three. At this point we should see a significant difference in our peoples increasing faith in the government and decreasing criminal activity and average individual and government debt.

Phase Three: The War to End all Wars

When we go into this phase our entire country is in total support of our explorers and incentives would be offered for those who are willing to volunteer for overseas duty. President Woodrow Wilson was not wrong when he told the United States in a speech that he gave during our entry into the first chapter of our modern world war. It did not end when people expected it to and would not in their life times, but hopefully we can find the means to that end in ours. Many people think it is a foolish idea with human nature that we will ever have a last war. I in some way I agree and in another I do not. There will always be conflict no doubt but there will not always be conflict between human factions. Many religious factions have the populations of the world so brainwashed with the idea that we are so imperfect that we will never know peace and that we will forever and always continue sinning our souls away. This will be true if we continue to believe in that idea until the end of time, but times change and so will the way we see ourselves and the world around us.

The goal is that explorers would deploy to various areas that request our presence at first because there will probably be more demand than can be supplied going in. Deployment units would have a wide variety of farmers, ranchers, construction workers, doctors and teachers. The operational purpose in every area would be to give the people of a given area the education they need and the initial supplies to get started. It will be like a brief crash course of going through grade school, junior high and high school all within a way shorter time frame. The checkpoints established would be there for at least two to four years and would rotate out personnel based on circumstantial and medical needs. The checkpoints would not leave with the Expedition once established as the local community will be filling in the roles once occupied by citizens of the United States. Some of these people will become Human Explorers but not everyone will be required to be a member of the Expedition as long as a security reason does not one day call for it. I believe it would be in our best interest to allow citizens of other countries to be members and not lock up enlistment exclusively to people of the United States. This does not mean that they will be granted citizenship. Lawmakers at one point with the help of our people hopefully will decide if they want to make that available for the purposes of encouraging people to make life better where they are at, over trying to re-locate, is why we want this to play out this way. People would not leave their homes, family and friends they grew up around with their wholes lives if it made the most sense for the sake of their future to stay where they are over leaving to another area like so many do now for economic reasons. Many politicians and people of our country are gridlocked about how to handle the illegal immigrant population. Just about all those who are working under the table in the fields or selling drugs will return once they realize they can make a better life again back where they come from over being a country away from the ones they love. In other areas of the world where countries have issues with people coming from the next country over for whatever reasons will also find that migration behaviors will change. This will help once again decrease crime in those places due to the fact that many people that enter illegally into a territory have no respect for the law at hand because the law already states that those individuals do not belong there. There would be no reason for them to respect any other law if they are not already abiding by that one.

With the majority of all the negative angles checked and balanced by functions of the Human Expedition, it would mean achieving easier lifestyles for everyone and in return the world we be a far safer and more efficient place to live. This means that everyone will be able to have the most ample opportunities possible to get their rights delivered to them by their governments according to the constitution or their local adopted doctrines in other countries. By governments I speak in terms of all local, state and federal. I hope by now that you see the concept of what I envision to bring us a type of glory that humanity has not yet seen in our history. The first edition of this book explaining this is just a mere introduction to the people of this dream. There are far more details and variables to cover than what I would be able to keep most people's attention focused on in a book at this kind of length. There will be more literature in the future for those who thirst for more and want to delve deeper into the concept once they get beyond scratching the surface. There will be more editions of this book and a fictional series I will call the "The War to End all Wars". There will be drawbacks like any system but this way over our current way will be far less cumbersome on the populations, make it easier for our government leadership to manage and bring an overall better life for everyone.

Back to Index

Chapter Nine: Civil War

Intensity of hostility in different areas of the world is a direct result of how a government or people handle their resources among one another. As the level of poverty increases in these places, so does the likeliness that the people will succumb to their impulses and fall into the traps that will change their lives forever. In Africa, they are constantly going from one leadership to another through violent overthrow. Making certain people happy pretty much means you are going to upset their neighbors or rivals. They have and continue to experience population explosions and devastating effects from long term exposure to these circumstances and substance abuse. In several areas of the entire continent, it is believed that almost half of the population suffers from H.I.V. alone among all the unplanned pregnancies. The more the population booms, the fewer the resources there are. Produce and livestock are hard to raise and preserve. There are seemingly 50 people out there willing to kill and take it over learning how to cultivate these things on their own for everyone person that tries to do it the honest way. Lack of education plays a significant role in this. Given the nature of how many African military forces use their children to do their killing and dying for them, it makes sense that violence is all they come to ever know. Many scientists and wildlife experts predict that most of the natural species native to Africa will go extinct in the near future due to how little there is left of the habitat not impacted or destroyed by human influence.

The art of war is actually more of a science and yet still a contest of chance. With the right tools almost anyone at any age or level of understanding in their lives, can possess destructive force if they know how to use it and carry the fortitude it takes to do harm to others. Many cultures over-condition people to become more aggressive to achieve these violent ends. Very few who train to handle power actually know how to use it once they have it because their experience in life in one form or another fails to humble them. This is why most leaders in harsh environments do not lead for long. Even for those who do have the capacity to lead that I speak of, there are some situations there is no dodging or preventing the imminent death. It is no secret that we all will die. I am not here to debate about what will or will not come to pass on someone once that happens. I am here to revive the American Spirit of accepting that destiny and traversing a fate that defines who we are until that time will come. There will be many disagreements among the people of the United States just as there has been in our past and we must resist the inevitable attempts to divide us so that we may be conquered. People will ask the hard question if our Constitutional Republic does not respond to the people's call to change soon. It was a question that George Washington asked and ultimately led him to becoming a General of the colonial army. When do we fight for and take our freedom and liberty, so that our children and their children will not one day have to face a more lethal threat in our place?

It is not my intention or goal to encourage or incite a violent revolution. We have more pressing problems to deal with, many of which are outside the public's awareness. People no doubt will see for themselves if the government and the rich try too hard to fight back or continue to oppress them. Our country's wealthy and our government leadership should expect the result of raging violence towards them if people in groups as large as the Occupy Wall Street movement go unheard by them and intentionally ignored. To go through this kind of domestic conflict will set the overall progress back of everyone detrimentally, on top of the negative impact on the lives of so many through death and disability. Nonetheless, those who are in power always seem to think that there is nothing that can change the fact they are in power. I simply remind those people who know who they are, that is what the French monarchs thought before they were marched to guillotines and invited to leave the living. You can learn from history and leave your mark of greatness behind upon it or vanish in the whispers of time with those who chose arrogance over grace.

Genocide has been a serious issue that has led to countless wars. One race does not have so much divine favor over another that it is acceptable to actively hunt whoever simply because of their skin color or heritage. Jewish people have had a long history of being directly targeted because of the idea they are "God's chosen people ". Hitler was so jealous of the idea for both personal and religious reasons, he had his Nazi's exterminate over six million of them among other races during the second chapter of our world war. Not being Aryan in his eyes meant that you were going on the chopping block in the future. He knew that included him and was ready to accept such fate even though he hoped that he had enough of the touch of divinity to be granted a much quicker death for his service to what his idea of worship meant. In the end it is believed that he served death to himself trying to avoid being subjected to public mockery and display, like Mussolini of Italy. The idea of a superior race is only destructive and barbaric. Only united all together as humans sharing in the fact we stand as one among humanity, will we ever truly become superior. Just because we have superiority over all the other creatures of the world with our power of creation and environmental manipulation, it does not mean we are more superior than the physics we live under or the limitations we set ourselves by fighting each other physically, legally and financially. I understand that a great deal of the harm done is done with the best of intentions when following the orders of whatever influence an individual fights for. Soon we will all need to accept that some of the things we have been taught are likely misinterpreted and that because of the misunderstanding, so much damage has been sustained there is no reversing it or even trying to make good on it, especially if you only try and continue to justify it. We all need each other in more ways than we will ever come to know.

There will be separatist factions that decide it is in their best interest for a variety of reasons to partake against the United States achieving this goal. No matter what, we will be confronted with inevitable conflict along the way. The question is if we will pick and choose our battles wisely when dealing with this. Public support will be needed for some of the tactics performed in the effort to deal with how this all will take place. The majority of this type of enemy will come from how they have somehow been impacted by our country's actions in the past and will stop at nothing to avenge their losses by bringing what harm they can. Once people have hit a certain level of pain or animosity, there is no redeeming the injustice that has been done. Our only way of saving ourselves is to start living up to the standard we already know we should be and yet, are not.

Back to Index

Chapter Ten: Religious Factions and Warnings Against a United Humanity

I must advise readers before moving into this chapter that I do not hold it against others for what it is they believe in as far as human origins and life after death. Nonetheless I have decided against watering down what it is that needs to be said because this is one of those messages that if I do not write it bluntly and to the point, it will be grossly misunderstood. I do hold it against people who grew up in the United States knowing as being taught in school about the U.S. Constitution and still find it acceptable to impose on others what their beliefs are and push it so hard onto others, especially those who disagree, that it is a minor form of brainwashing. I am most bothered by these types of people in political positions of power. They impose on an individual's first amendment rights through laws when they force them to live out a painfully terminal life and want euthanasia or forcing an expectant mother who was not planning on a child, to go through a full term of pregnancy when she wants to abort for really understandable life reasons. The only way to demonstrate we are serious about freedom of religion is not to show favoritism to one over another and for public servants to remain passive in their beliefs while on active duty at all levels. This entire chapter is about making the government religiously passive because it is important to upholding our own ideals and maintaining strong diplomatic relationships with countries not like our own culture. People with little guidance, are meant to find their own ways in life. That is part of the whole point of having free will. Using your free will to influence what others do with their free will, is rude and not at all patriotic. Let others be who they are.

There are places in our country even during these trying times of a new type of warfare, that no longer have children in classrooms saying the pledge of allegiance to the U.S. flag in the morning anymore. They claim that the word "God" being in the pledge makes us religiously biased and that for some ridiculous reason think it is a good idea not to say it at all. It is a better idea to just simply replace the term in question. Instead of it being said "under God", it can be "under the stars". Under the stars can mean both, under the flag or under the night sky. It is nothing personal to those among the catholic faiths but it is a national security issue to not support the words written in the first amendment. breing labeled and thought as nothing more than hypocrites. It is no secret that the fundamental idea behind Taliban and Al-Qaeda is an Islamic crusade against what they see as an ancient enemy. They are fighting Catholicism and see our government as a medium of that power. We have no reason to disrespect our public servants by opting not to begin the day with the proper politically correct pledge of allegiance.

Many religious groups claim that a one world government will be world ending. It is understandable with the level of corruption involved in the government to begin with that one could see why. In the same instance, imagine if a single religious group was to achieve that too. With the history of how religious establishments have taken from people that it too is evidently exposed to such corruption. As judgmental as some of these factions are upon others, they do reach out with their own homeless programs. The difference between religions and governments besides money is the fact that people will kill for their faith without fee. They will do whatever it is that they think the "Lord" wills them to do. Morale building on one's own faith turns the tides of battles. This type of morale building is also critically flawed. We have seen in our history great civilizations fall to their own people when they discover what they thought to be true a lie. Supposedly immortal deities with their own cities in the surrounding areas of Sumeria and Egypt during ancient times went crazy and rioted after they watched their "Gods" and "Goddesses" killed before their eyes. Believe it or not that would be why knowledge of extra-terrestrials would be dangerous to admit for any government.

The worst part is most faiths in reality say to their followers that it is not your place to judge others. Unfortunately many lose sight of that when it comes to what they believe is in their "Lord's" will. I was raised a Roman-Catholic and like many of the other branches of these series of churches was taught that God gave us free will. What it says in the Bible about abortion among other issues of morality is specifically meant for you alone. It does not mean you are meant to impose it onto others. You alone should be concerned about what you do and not worried so much about others. God gave humans free will to do what one would naturally do without the influence of other humans.

The fact that so many religions prophesy doom means that something is evidently coming. The difference between those who know better and the ones who don't is when the hour of our judgment comes there are those who will be fighting for humanity and there will be those who are down on their knees begging for mercy. Up until the time of our demise we should be doing what we can to make the world a better place when the opportunity presents itself. Right now there are so many on an individual level that does not have this opportunity because of their personal battle against poverty which is seemingly never ending to most. We will not be shown mercy because we ask or beg for it. We will only be shown mercy if we earn it. With the way we conduct our business with our fellow humans, there is no reason for a higher power of any kind to want to openly interact with us.

Since the fall of what is known as the Tower of Babel, humanity has not stood under one banner. The story of this event is told by the ruins of civilizations and biblical books of both the Islam and Christianity, but each in their own way. The important yet most overlooked part of the story is that humanity was making an attempt to ascend into the heavens by working all together. It was the first time the divide and conquer tactic had been applied against humanity and has continued to see use through the course of our history. Part of the reason this is portrayed to us is to discourage the idea that we can work together again and to illustrate to us just how important keeping humanity divided is. It is what keeps us on the ground here on Earth as opposed to returning to our focus of discovering the stars the way more of us once did. Only by helping each other cleanse the weakness from one another, can we return to the exploration of life here on Earth and beyond the atmosphere.

Reading what the Bible or Koran says and grasping what they really mean are two separate understandings. People forget they are reading translations of these scriptures. Some people are not even reading it for themselves like in the middle-east. Odds are we do not have the truth available to us in the way we were meant to know it. No matter who you are, there is something about your faith that you are wrong about. All we can do is try and we can only discover for ourselves what this truth is. Never let someone tell you what it is.

Back to Index

Chapter Eleven: Seizing the American Dream and Living Among Humanity

On the idea of the American Dream, the United States has come a long way. Farther in many ways than our Founding Fathers could have ever dreamed of. There was a time in our recent history where life was much simpler. Where people still had a genuinely neighborly feeling for one another and opportunity was much more accessible. I know what is meant when someone beyond the age of my generation says that they don't make things like they used to. We can bring back that sense of life but this time it won't fade away so quickly that it dissolves within the lifetimes of those whom saw its revival.

The Human Dream will make this available throughout the world. This way people can actually be truly free and go to the places they want to go to as long as it's not hazardous to supply. Everyone's worth will still not be the same; yet, people will not be forced to do without. This will expand research and scientific discovery. This will raise daily and annual morale of all who participate. People can feel better about living among Humanity because they not only see all the good going around but have the chance to engage in its activities themselves without it becoming overburdening. The rewards will speak for themselves for both the people and the leadership running this new way of life. In our darkest hours there are those of us that become the display of courage that shines brightest when no other hope is visible. Only by showing each other how to share this light, can we overcome the darkness. We must not stop at re-empowering our own people, we must empower all that we can so they can in turn and do the same.

It will be humbling for many people of the United States who volunteer in the Expedition to go out into other places where English is not the main language. The Expedition will encourage the study of other languages and cultures. Right now most people see the United States on its own pedestal and do not revere it. We cannot hope for others to accept us if we do not properly accept others. Many may try and become frustrated because it is not in their nature to live outside the bounds of how they live life. No one is perfect and no one person can know every little thing. A wise man once told me that a true master knows that one can never cease learning. You can possess all the strength in the world yet without the knowledge to wield it, it means nothing. We have our strengths as a country but due to the design of our social structure we have forgotten how to use it. We can find our strength again through our constitution and making sure that the laws passed from here on out empower our people over setting up limitations. Laws in place that even mildly infringe upon our Bill of Rights should be wiped out of the books. The only ways we will earn respect worldwide is by not only eating what we are selling; but, standing by our word to uphold and defend it in our own boundaries. There is no reason why we would want these rights ourselves if we did not believe everyone was entitled to these rights being human. People who want such freedoms and cannot do anything but dream of it at the moment, will feel forever indebted to whoever helps them acquire it for future generations. Humanity can be re-united and people will stand together as one and the same even though we are all unique.

Back to Index

Chapter Twelve: The Dream of World Peace made into Reality

Earth can be made into a Utopia even through right now in some places it is literally a living hell. People around the globe would help one another with the right opportunity. With more time on their hands and all their needs fulfilled, people will actually be able to try and sate their thirst for the knowledge that life has to offer. People will enjoy more life and engage less in counter-productive behavior. People will be far less depressed and in turn less likely to want to spend their lives on the couch in their own little world because they despise the one we currently live in for the many reasons one would do so. Our system will be more stable and more people would be genuinely happy to know that our future is shining bright as our reserves grow instead of taking more of what we know we already do not have. Those who are hurt by the labor of life will not need to live in despair. Money will no longer be a definable measurement of freedom.

It is no secret that success builds wealth. There is no reason with our sophisticated technology that we cannot simplify things where success becomes more common. Sometimes being successful is about playing the odds and how many times an individual has the capacity to play such odds. With needs being addressed, people will have more time and chances to find their success. There is no excuse for us to take our capable people and make them feel like they are worthless because the system deprives them of legitimate opportunity. This change can be made if we all work together to achieve it. There is a good chance that what is happening to our economy is not an accident but by design. Living among a republic or democracy means that this system should be our design in which the people are not the victims. Bringing about such a change against that type of power will come with heavy sacrifice, even as painful as it will be for many, will be better than the alternative future that we will face as our punishment for doing nothing. There will be secrets that will come to light that will devastate the foundation of the world as we currently know it.

People are not perfect and everyone is bound to make mistakes. The U.S. Human Expedition will reflect that strive for perfection that we all want to possess that is known as greatness. The only way we can become united as a whole people of the Earth is to set aside our differences. The sooner we do this the quicker we can make our lives rich with the flavor of pure freedom and genuine peace. This process as it is already depending on how much support or resistance it faces can take a few years or last a few centuries. It is really unlikely at the point we are at right now though where it would only take a few years. The point is we cannot complete this process until we begin. This idea is not meant to be a one person crusade and counts on the good nature will of others to show support. Having a democracy where the population does not participate is not at all a democracy and is just sugar-coated subjugation. Without the help of the population I cannot prove that democracy works. Once our government does something to earn the respect of the people again we will see people returning to the polls and having their voices heard when they believe that someone is listening. Fate and destiny were meant to work together instead of contradicting each other, just like our humanity.

Back to Index

Chapter Thirteen: Conclusion Results

Every long standing government and religious organization has their secrets just like individuals except what they know involves the majority of people on Earth. Divide and conquer is used against the masses but also carries an individual psychological function as well. By dividing an individual's thoughts you can conquer their mind. Some of the most monstrous atrocities ever committed have yet to see justice as the people responsible blame others for the fall. There is a very strong national security reason behind the layout of the U.S. Human Expedition. Right now we are being made to think that we are our own worst enemy when there is a presence out in the solar system and on our Earth with power that is far more terrifying than what we can imagine in our most horrific nightmares. I myself am still working on a way to identify what exactly this is and how we can co-exist with them but it is at the very least evident that they do exist. These factions of entities have gone to great lengths to keep their presence concealed from us. Not all are to be feared as some of what we are not aware of is there to help and guide us. We will see things beyond our understanding and try using what we have been taught all our lives to make an attempt to relate to such things which are not even close to comparison.

The main issue is that it is apparent is that just about every mortal infrastructure is compromised at its' highest levels. There is a reason that so few control so much and it has to do with the fact that whatever these unclassified individuals are, simply do not trust us nor have any faith in human compassion. These beings fail to realize that by harming us the way it is for whatever vengeful reason they may have, is also dealing significant damage to itself by guiding us to our own destruction. Humanity is not really destroying itself even though it is what we are being led to believe. There is more to what is happening to us than senseless violence and random acts of sin. Due to the level of secrecy and corruption involved in participating factions, we must consider that we are being misled. Many fail to realize that what is preached as the word of the "Lord" is not in fact what the word is. Knowing the truth and lying about it without reason is treason to your fellow people. I personally seriously doubt that Jesus Christ as wise as he was, claimed he was the "Son of God". Christ would not have become the Savior of Humanity through his actions but his message. I would bet my bottom dollar that Christ said that "God", through each and everyone one of us had divided up it's power among us. The ability to create and stand in it's image is our gift from it. Jesus was crucified because he told us to have faith in each other and that together we would have the power to save ourselves. That even in his mortal absence he would be with us every step of the way because he had faith in us. That we did not need to believe in him because he believed in us. It is said that "God" is made perfect in our weakness, which subliminally means that it can only be made perfect again when the world and humanity work together to achieve a common means in life. The fact that the Bible does not have any of Christ's own hand written word speaks volumes about the teachings at hand. There is also a reason in the revelations of Christ written by "John the Baptist" that it says that six of the seven named churches are not up to par with how the word is supposed to be served. I would wager that not a single one of them are. Jesus died believing in us even though he knew our future is plagued with hardships.

Money in many ways is like a whip driving the human cattle down and around the corral. The Constitution the way it was written was all about empowering the people and very much designed against limitations on individualism. Many laws in most states are federally unconstitutional. We cannot allow the folly of a select few be the reason we strip ourselves of our defenses. A time is coming that a force is counting on us getting caught with our pants down and literally expects us to be on our knees begging them for a mercy that they already intend on denying us. We should never have made the mistake of entrusting our authority as a country in the hands of others. We will either learn to live as a true democracy or we will watch our way of life die with us.

There is a strong chance even with an overwhelming amount of support, that the movement around the formation of the U.S. Human Expedition will discover just how little power and respect the U.S. government really pays to it's people. A revolution may need to take place but I want to say that a civil war would be totally in vane. We must move forward delicately as that much devastation could be detrimental to our survival going from one major issue to the next. The time we have is so precious and we will already have to give so much to get to where we should be to begin with. Every human casualty is the loss of a potential direly needed ally.

By creating the United States Human Expedition with a goal of world peace, I am not calling for military disbandment. If we want peace, we must be prepared for war. People will be trying to blast me for this thought in an attempt to discredit me. I am human and have made my own mistakes like all others. Trying to shame me for anything a mortal human can fall victim to will not take away from the results that will speak for themselves with this systematic change. Assassinating me will not dissolve the dreams of our humanity. I know writing this that I will probably not live to see this become a reality and that this idea may still be ahead of it's time in our history but at least here, we have a start. We have already been set back more than we know. The only way to honor the memory of those who have given themselves to our cause is to be the best that we can be. Until what is called the "End of the World" comes, we must be strong and act as though it intends to spin on. If we believe that we cannot be saved than we have all already lost.

Most of us would like to think that if the truth was told that we would be able to handle it. A former Secretary of Defense that served under President Bill Clinton issued a press statement to President George Bush Jr. during his first term of office calling for our government to reveal what it is we know about extra-terrestrial life and intelligence because our public deserves to know. Naturally our government did what it always does when it wants an issue to blow over, which is nothing including not even addressing the problem or openly denying it. Ignoring an infection does not bring about a cure, it only ensures the inevitable sooner. We should take a close look at how much our scientific understanding with technology among other things has grown in the last 40 or 50 years over how much we have advanced in the past 2,000-3,000 years. With that said, we would be foolish to continue to think that we came so far this recently on our own ingenuity. We either prove we are ready for higher civilization or risk being sent back to the Stone Age like savages.

###

How to get involved

Share what you think with others and see what others are thinking!

Facebook:http://www.facebook.com/pages/Human-Expedition/483375711687503?ref=ts

Twitter: @HumanExpedition

Sign the moveon.org petition and wait for the e-mail when we will go live on whitehouse.gov at  http://petitions.moveon.org/sign/us-govt-form-the-us-human

or write to your elected Congressional Official and tell them what you want...although do not expect a response if you do not include a large check with your letter.

Back to Index
