 
# UNIVERSEI

# POETRY FOR EVERYONE.

### Poems written

### by

### Anthony James Day

### Published by Art and Soul Co.
HAVE I GOT SOMETHING FOR YOU?

Have I got something for you?

Yes I have, close your eyes and guess who.

I've got something for you.

And I hope you like it too.

Open up your eyes.

Hope this is a nice surprise.

I popped up with the morning sunrise.

I know we haven't been together for a while.

But I hope I'm still the one, who makes you smile.

I came back as soon as I could.

I came back like I said I would.

How have you been, since I've been away?

I thought of you, every night and day.

I'm sorry I had to go.

But I had no choice, like you already know.

But most important, is that I'm back here with you.

There's so much to say, there's so much to do.

If you only knew, what it means to me, to see you again.

Cause without you,

The finest weather feels like endless rain.

THE FALL OF THE WALL.

There's a girl I wish I knew,

But she put up a wall of silence.

I didn't know what to do.

I could see the wall of fear and distrust.

I knew the code of silence, I had to bust.

Should I persist, will she give in?

Was that a smile?

Was that a grin?

Was that a brick that did fall?

Is this the falling of the wall?

Is this my chance to win it all?

Is this the fall of the wall?

Instead of a cold shoulder, a warm and kind word.

Her voice is the sweetest thing,

I've ever heard.

To replace her frown, comes a smile.

That could replace the sun.

But I can't count a win, till I have won.

The falling of the wall has just begun.

Before I kept my distance.

But now she shows no resistance.

Now I'm sitting by her side,

As the treacherous road of life, we ride.

Instead of a cold glance, she gives her warm hand.

It just goes to show,

You can't tell how long the wall will stand.

SHOPPING

You use your fingers like an abacus, trying to keep count of the financial damage, of the contents of the already over budget, quarter filled, mind of it's own shopping trolley.

THE ABSOLUTE

The president kept looking for a way to have absolutism added to the constitution.

ABSTRACT

In my head thoughts dance, like fairies on the gypsy wind, so abstruse that I myself don't have any chance of understanding them.

TEACHER

The teacher's adenoidal voice and his bookworm glasses, helped to roundoff his neolithic aura.

Time is the nemesis of life.

ANGER

A heated temper, clenched fist, grinding teeth, angry eyes. Words spoke but, not meant.

NIGHT AFTER FORMAL

Black hair and black clothes, contrast against snow white skin, vampire or hung over?

You never know if you are bird, until you spread your wing and fly.

Brave firemen, dance in the flames. To bring out a different partner every time.

Ocean treasures in the safety of the deep, pearls and sunken sea bound flowers.

Cocooned children, rain, soil and sun beckon their growth into tall trees.

The world is my oyster but you are my pearl.

The sententious, yttrium coloured hair, frail old man, sat around the camp fire.

Telling yarns to the children, until they were called away to bed by their parents.

The english teacher read one screed after another, until every student fell asleep out of boredom.

What's one person's dung beetle is another person scarab.

Night Mare

I'm riding my nightmare, through the forest of fear.

I just wonder, is this a dream or, am I really here?

Jumping over the chasm of reality.

You say it's an illusion but it's real enough for me.

Watching as my dread takes shape.

Riding through a desert, with a lunar like landscape.

Tearing at my mind, plucking at my brain.

Cutting it fine between pleasure and pain.

I'm riding my nightmare.

Oh what a scare.

Riding my nightmare.

She has broke into a gallop. She is out of control.

I'm finding it hard to stay on,

The reins are burning like a hot coal.

Bucking, kicking, rearing.

She is the mount we're all fearing.

Fire in her eyes, evil in her every vein.

Tears and blood flow like flooding rain.

My wicked steed take me away, take me home,

Let me be, leave me alone.

I'm riding my nightmare, through the forest of fear.

The Gypsy

OH-OH calls the gypsy wind,

OH-OH she tries to call you in.

Pack your bags, get set for flight.

The gypsy wind calls tonight.

Give her your hand to hold.

And your future is made, even if it ain't told.

OH-OH calls the gypsy wind.

"Come travel with me, she does cry,

Follow me till the day you die."

She'll steal your heart, she'll steal your soul.

Like a rolling stone, forever you will roll.

"I won't harm you, she said.

I'll just possess your heart, soul and head."

She says come follow me.

There's a whole new world to see.

Let's dance on the ocean, come and play.

She's the pied piper and I just follow.

She gives me my medicine, so I just swallow.

She calls all night and day,

until you get up and runaway.

Until you get up and runaway with her.

I ain't no vagabond but I must move on.

When the gypsy wind blows, through me,

till all the leaves fall and the nakedness of truth,

is all that does remain.

She keeps calling my name.

The Public Transport Man

The public transport man.

Buys his ticket after nine, because it's cheaper after that time.

Travels back and forth to town all day.

He's bought his trip, so he's going to make it pay.

Talk to people to find out what they think.

Talk to strangers to find out what they're like.

Looks out the window and waves at a couple on a motorbike.

Tells people he wants to become a famous poet and song writer.

But right now he's nothing more, than a dream warrior and shadow fighter.

He goes by bus, ferry and train.

If you have seen him once, you're sure to see him again.

He is always singing. In the sun, wind or rain.

He's the public transport man.

Time to him has no worth, If he doesn't take the time to talk to others.

He says hello to every one, from little children to grandfathers and grandmothers.

Wish them a good day, a good life and have a good time.

As long as, there is someone new to talk with, everything is fine.

Some won't talk but that is ok.

Many people you can't trust, many are busy, tired or worried today.

He wishes he could wash, the tears and pain, from people's eyes.

Heal their broken hearts, fill the lonely spaces with family and friends

To tell the truth from the lies.

Find the answers to every problem.

And set the slaves of bad loves free.

He knows he can't do all this, so does the best he can.

By being happy and sharing his happiness.

That's what he does, the public transport man.

BIG BROTHER SYNDROME.

I once had the big brother syndrome.

I felt betrayed and all alone.

I felt like a white crow.

No flock to fly with.

No where to go.

I thought my parents were so mean.

Not treating my siblings the same,

As they treated me at the same age.

But now I'm older and wiser.

And I have got over that stage.

Now I realize that Mum and Dad were trying to correct,

The mistakes they made with me.

It has been said foolishness,

Is to keep making the same mistakes over and over again.

It's awful to wish the same thing,

That made your life less enjoyable, upon someone else.

What a kill joy.

Specially when the driving force of your thoughts,

Are thinly salt covered hot potato chips.

Dripping with oily jealousy.

Sure to clog the arteries of your love mussel. The heart.

A person may know what she or he thinks in one's brain.

But no one can really know for sure,

What one feels in their heart.

The heart and the brain plays a game, of politics.

Telling lies to one another.

So as to justify one's feelings, thoughts and actions.

Me, myself and I used to gang up on my little brothers.

Playing football with them,

And "accidentally" tackling them too heavily.

The game ended up in a tearful fifty metre run inside.

They were attended to by nurse mum.

And I was sent to bed with no tea.

And told to wait till dad got home.

As I lay in bed, I felt proud of our efforts.

Getting back at Murray for him being the mechanical one,

And Dad's favourite one.

Paying back Daniel for being the smart one,

And being Mum's baby.

But now my eyes moisten and my heart saddens,

To think of the cruelty I have dealt out to others.

I could use the excuse,

That I was the schools bullies favourite victim.

But that is no excuse. Why does abuse breeds abuse?

I guess it's like an itch, the more you scratch it,

The worse it gets. But who can resist scratching an itch.

Now I realise my mistakes are not my parent's.

But they are mine.

I chose to over indulge in spirits, beer and wine.

I chose to walk this rough rocky road.

And it's me not my brothers or a friend, but me, myself and I. Who have to travel this road to it's end.

**THROW** **IT ALL AWAY.**

I'd throw it all away.

I'd throw it all away.

If you would just come back and love me.

There's nothing I wouldn't sacrifice,

because you're worth any price.

I'd give up my fame and money.

Just to have you back again, honey.

I'd spend every hour of my life with you,

just to prove my love is true.

I'm sorry that I left you, so many times on your own.

But please believe, your good byes cut me to the bone.

I'd do anything to get you back.

Believe me when I say that....

I'd throw it all away.

I'd throw it all away.

If you would just come back and love me.

I'd throw away all my records.

As long as I get the rewards,

you here back with me.

Don't you feel the truth?

Don't you see?

I will love you always, I love you for eternity.

Together we're meant to be.

A World Of Love.

In this cold and lonely world.

Where peace and happiness is only a dream,

of every boy and girl.

Where true love is hardly ever used,

and trust is always abused.

Everybody prays in their heart,

that a world of love will soon start.

A world of love, a world of peace.

A world where all war will cease

A world of love, a world of peace.

A world where everyone can trust their fellow man. Where you don't need to fear again.

A world where everyone is free.

A world of love, a world of love.

Is the world for me.

A place where there's only good news.

The colour of the sea and the sky,

are the only things shades of blues.

Where the whole world is one civilized nation.

A place where there's no loneliness.

Where every need has it's own address.

A World Of Love, A World Of Love.

Is the world for me.

T A K E I N S T E A D O F G I V E .

All my life I've lived for someone else.

But now the time has come to look after myself.

All my time was taken up by strangers and friends.

But my candle is burning at both ends.

I'm at the end of my tether.

I've got to get myself together.

So I'll do what I want and like,

and if you don't understand, you can take a hike.

For my life is mine to live.

And I think it's time to..

Take instead of give.

By myself, I want to be with.

It's time to take instead of give.

Take instead of give.

All my time is spent, being someone else's slave.

It's time I took instead of gave.

No longer will I serve anyone else hand and foot.

After my own needs, is where I will look.

All the help I gave, is all the help I'm giving.

My own life is what I should be living.

I can't keep giving forever.

I guess late is better than never,

to take instead of give.

Dina saw..

Dina saw, Dina saw, Dina saw it all.

Dina saw everything.

She saw the corruption and the changing of money.

She said to herself,

"This so called justice system is a joke."

But if she ever tells, it wouldn't be that funny.

She saw the criminals go scott free.

She wanted to tell someone for the better of society.

She saw the good die out,

and the rich have much, and the poor go with out.

She saw beyond the day ahead.

She looked at the distant future instead.

She had seen calamity before it did arrive.

Dina tells us we must change our ways,

if we are to survive.

She sees drugs and gangs fighting in the streets.

She saw the fear in the boy's face,

as his heart pumps it's last seven beats.

She cries for the future,

she cries for everything.

She cries for the children,

she cries out "A better future for them, let us bring."

Dina saw it all. She didn't miss a thing.

Don't go!

Please don't go, just stay a while.

Give me your love and that sexy smile.

Let me touch your silken hair.

Let me show you how much I care.

My love, my life, I need you so.

I love you so much, so,

Please don't go.

Let's talk for a while, without saying a word.

Let your and my body language be heard.

So please don't go, just stay with me.

To love and hold, for eternity.

Without you my life is a big black hole.

You contain my mind, my heart and soul.

So stay with me, my love of my life.

Stay with me and be my wife.

To loose you now, I'm sure you know...

I love you girl, so,

Please don't go.

Co-written by Larry Anderson and Anthony James Day

New image of you.

Your eyes are red, your lips are blue.

Are you dead or is this a new image of you ?

You dress so weird. You're so strange.

What's happened to you, what has changed ?

Out all night, sleep all day.

You're wasting your life away.

You wish to rock.

You wish to shock.

You want to be,

everything against me.

I don't like what I see.

Is it to be a rebel, is it to be in the crowd.

You're always wearing that black shroud.

Always listening to that noise.

Always hanging out with those boys.

Always being chased by the law.

Why do you, do this for ?

You're on another planet, deep in space.

I can see it on your face,

That you would rather be, anywhere than this place.

You're further away than the most distant star.

Even though we're in the same room,

I don't know where you are.

I try to talk with you, but there's no answer.

Earth calling Star Light Dancer.

Now you stare at a blank t.v screen.

Don't know where you were,

I don't know where you could have been.

Can you return to, the station we started with ?

So I know what to take, and what to give.

We never seem to communicate

Please turn it back, before it's over.

Before it's too late.

JUST BURY ME, IN THE PET CEMETERY.

Just bury me, just bury me,

In the pet cemetery.

Six foot down, ghostly pound,

Amongst the best friends, I've ever found.

Treat me like a dog, kick me when I'm down and out.

And when you say mongrel or son of a bitch,

I'm the one you're talking about.

When I die, lay me down to lie,

Amongst the mongrels and the strays.

Cause they are the ones, who shared my earthly days

They are the one's who stuck by me,

Through thick and thin.

So in turn, my love, loyalty and trust they did win.

You treated me lower, than the lowest bug.

When I asked for help, you gave me the shrug.

Only when, I'm soon to die,

Will you treat me with respect.

And it's only for the money, you hope to collect.

I won't push up daisies, I'll push up dogweed.

To remind you, how you dealt with me,

In my hour of need.

Don't put me in a expensive tomb.

If you won't even talk to me, when I'm in the same room.

Don't put flowers on my grave,

If while I was living, nothing to me you ever gave.

Treat me like dirt, embalm me in gold.

The weirdest story ever told.

Why respect the dead, if all you give to them,

When they're living is a kick in the head.

N E V E R K N O W N A N I L L U S I O N

Never known an illusion, to look as good as...

Never known an illusion, to look as good as you.

You told me, I'd wake up,

And this would all be just a dream.

And I would wake up and forget the beauty I had seen.

But I can't forget that night,

When we made love under the moon and star light.

I've been searching for you, for at least a week.

You're the one, I will always seek.

Oh, someone please tell me. What did I see?

What does haunt my soul?

Is it fantasy or memory?

I can't believe a dream could be so real.

I remember every word I said, every feeling I did feel.

You disappeared, you just faded away.

Like a cloud on a sunny day.

Like a genie,

Until I find you, you'll be,

An obsession to me.

My friends tell me to forget it.

My heart would like to, but my mind won't let it.

I close my eyes and you return.

How, my heart and soul does burn.

It burns like a smokestack.

Can't wait for you to come back.

Never known an illusion, to look as good as you.

No pets allowed.

I just shifted into a flat about a month ago.

But the problem was, I couldn't keep my pitbull terrier,

Beau.

The landlord stopped talking in broken english,

And said clear and loud.

NO PETS ALLOWED! NO PETS ALLOWED!

Well that was rather obvious,

With it written on every wall and door.

With the mess of this slum, why pick on the pets for.

I did the right thing, left Beau with a friend.

But I gave in, before the first week did end.

After a few days I realised that the flats were a menagerie.

The local kids come to the flats,

Cause it was like a zoo, but only free.

I laugh to myself, as in my mind's eye I could see.

The landlord jumping up and down.

And yelling all so loud.

NO PETS ALLOWED! NO PETS ALLOWED!

In number one lives Johno, with his three siamese cats.

In number two lives Nicole with her guinea pig and ferret.

In number three lives Ruth with her fifty domestic rats.

In number four lives Mat and Jenny, with their son Josh.

And a shetland pony.

In number five abides two cockatoos and a galah named Tony.

In number six. Hi there it's me, with good old Beau.

A pet panther and a carpet snake in a tree.

Well sure enough the landlord found out, I don't know how.

He said to us all, that he wanted us out by the hour.

With a hot temper and a red face, he yelled all so very L O U D!

N O P E T S A L L O W E D ! N O P E T S A L L O W E D !

We found in the landlord's flat two pekinese.

So he forgets he saw our pets.

And we have what pets we please.

No pets allowed. No pets allowed. No pets allowed.

Ain't no poet, Ain't no king.

I ain't no poet, ain't no king.

I can't buy you, no diamond ring.

I've got no song, to sing.

I ain't no poet, ain't no king.

I'll give you my love, so be my wife.

I'll give all I have, all my life.

I ain't no star, ain't no rich man.

But I'll please you the best I can.

I will keep you safe from harm.

We can raise some kids on our little farm.

Ain't no poet, ain't no king.

But my love is true,

There's no one for me, but you.

Even though I can't put it, in a fancy rhyme

My love for you, will last the test of time.

Ain't no prince, ain't no castle where I dwell.

Ain't no fortune teller, but true love is easy to tell.

Trust me just this time.

Honey, please say you'll be mine.

I ain't no poet, ain't no king.

I can't buy you no diamond ring.

I've got no song, to sing.

I ain't no poet, ain't no king.

But for you, I would do anything.

L A S T R I D E .

Heavy metal sewer side.

Going on your last ride.

The fish come on land, cause the sea,

Is no place to abide.

The mermaids are looking for, a place to hide.

From the cocktalien, toxic, sewage filled king tide.

Going on your last ride.

Dolfins beach themselves on shore.

Cause the sea is not safe, anymore.

They prophetically say " Don't go in for a swim.

You will pay for all mankind's sin."

When your board needs a wax.

You use the gunk off dead sea birds' backs.

Neptune exits the deep,

Cause the sinking nuclear powered submarines,

Ruin his sleep.

The sea horses gallop into the sunset.

This is the strangest day I've had yet.

It's a time I will never forget.

The day the sea monsters and I met.

The flying fish flew to the moon.

I think I might go there, pretty soon.

Eels and lungfish became desert dwellers.

The penguins and the killer whales,

Became religion sellers.

The parrot fish became pirates and fortune tellers.

Sharks and barracuda joined the army.

The surgeon fish saved peoples lives.

And the convicts set people free.

The albatross went mad, the crab was cross.

The angelfish cried for the waste and loss.

And the sun fish became the crime boss.

The chinese crayfish grew bonsai and exotic moss.

The sea is black not blue.

The ocean is no longer a friend of you.

You're drowning in a man made sludge.

You can't move, you can't budge.

It tastes like tar flavoured fudge.

Going on your last ride.

I LOVE YOU, BUT I CAN'T LIVE WITH YOU

I love you, but I can't live with you.

Fussing and Arguing is all we ever do.

We fight all night and all day.

We're fighting our whole life away.

We can never ever agree.

I hurt you, you hurt me.

I love you, but I can't live with you.

Hope we can leave on good terms.

Lick our wounds and heal our burns.

It's a shame that our love, we can't communicate.

We act as if, each other we do hate.

If only we were more understanding.

If only we were less demanding.

It is a shame that we do clash.

Our love could be so flash,

But we don't get along.

Oh my dear, what did we do wrong.

I guess it's too late to say, I love you so.

Now our separate ways we must go.

I love you, but I can't live with you.

SAVE ME FROM SALVATION.

Save me from salvation, I was born in sin.

We're all imperfect, sin is something we all commit.

Save me from salvation

I wish not to hear, what you have to say.

You're nothing but a hypocrite,

You're nothing but your own savior.

Let me save you, your time.

I don't need your truth, without it I'm doing fine.

I'm getting by, without your prayers and your wings.

I'm making my way clear.

So I don't need god to come in here,

And tell me, I must do this, to gain salvation.

But all men, have got from religion.

Is war and tribulation, save me from salvation.

Fertile Ground !

No one knows, what's to be found,

Growing in fertile ground.

Is that a bloom?

Growing in the corner of your room.

Look there's a blossom,

Growing in the pouch of a possum.

Here is a carnation,

Making use of the situation.

Wow do you see the pear,

Growing in midair?

Hey man dig that violet,

In the cap of that pilot.

I saw a hibiscus,

Spinning round on a discus.

Ate a carrot,

Hanging around a sailor's parrot.

What a big gumtree,

Growing in my cup of tea.

Up grew a dandylion,

On the tears I was crying.

Hang around and watch those falling stars,

Grow over those motor cars.

Up there on Saturn,

Is some italian parsley speaking latin.

And there are white trumpets, playing love tunes.

On Venus's moon

On a cloud, purple striped zebras,

Graze on the black and white pedestrian grass.

Things grow so green.

Things grow so fast,

In my head.

On coloured dreams and wild herbs,

My imagination is fed.

COSMIC STARE.

You laugh at the moon and the stars, cause they're not really there.

They're just the creation of your cosmic stare.

If you look hard enough, you will see things that are not real.

If you dream long enough, you'll know how reality is meant to feel.

If you listen to the silence, you can hear the wind cry in pain.

If you live long enough you will cry tears like autumn rain.

Smell the midnight air and taste how sweet life can be.

Until you've been enslaved, you can never really be free.

Love something too much it becomes hate.

If you're always early, you'll end up being late.

Butterflies of imagination fly, to the tree of inspiration.

To settle for night, until they fly around thought's flicking light.

Dancing to the reed pipe, played by fantasia.

On the wings of a silver albatross, you travel across Asia.

Return before tea, what fun you have living in a world of fantasy.

You laugh at the moon and the stars, cause they're not really there.

They're just the creation of your cosmic stare.

IF I HAD WINGS,

If I had wings , I would fly away.

If I had wings, I would leave this place today.

If I had wings, I would fly, right out of here.

If I had wings, I'd be free, have no fear.

Enslaved by others expectations.

Imprisoned by the wall of this concrete jungle.

I feel like a flightless bird, in an open field.

Useless and vulnerable.

If I had wings of an eagle, I would fly to the sun.

If I had wings of a barn owl. I would fly to the moon.

If I had wings of the albatross,

I would fly across the seven seas.

If I had wings of a turtle dove.

I would fly to your room.

If I had wings and I could fly to anywhere.

I would return to you still.

If I had wings, I'd perch on your window sill.

If I had wings, I'd set my wings to flight.

If I had wings, I'd fly back to you, tonight.

I hear the Universe call.

"Come everybody, come one and all.

Fly away from this place of sorrow.

You can come back to earth tomorrow."

If these arms are wings,

they've been clipped for so very long.

I need to wait for the feathers to grow back,

and then I can make my wings strong.

So I can fly to better planet, fly to a better place.

If I had wings of an angel,

I would fly to the heavens above.

I would leave this world of pain,

to find a world of love.

And fly back to take you there.

AMEANA.

Ameana, Ameana you're such a pretty dreamer.

Dreaming your life away.

Dreaming everything is ok.

You've got to wake up and see.

That's not the way it happens to be.

You can't always escape reality.

One day you'll have to wake up and see.

You think every thing is just fine,

Everything is just great.

But you have to look beyond your dream world,

Look beyond your own gate.

If you would only open your eyes.

You'd see, you've been believing their lies.

It's alright to escape now and then.

But you need to face reality, to make it better again.

Ameana, Ameana you're such a pretty dreamer.

I'VE GOT TO FIND MY....

I've got to find my niche in this world.

I've got to find my loving girl.

I've got to find my very own place.

I've got to find my smile on my face.

I've got to find my own reason for being here

I've got to find my own answers, mother dear.

I've got to find my own rhyme and reason.

I've got to find my own time and season.

Hey don't you see.

The searching is up to me.

I've got to find this out for myself.

Put those books back on the shelf.

Don't you see, don't you understand.

The search is for each and every man,

To find a place where he does belong.

Where his mind, soul and body can be strong.

Just look and you will see.

That I've got to find me.

A WEIRD WORLD.

Fire flies are burning holes in the sky.

Birds fly into the sun,

because it's the quickest way to die.

Whales beach themselves on the southern shore.

Because they don't, have anything worth living for.

Fish surface to get a fresh breath of air.

But they soon find out that,

there's nothing fresh or clean anywhere.

It's a weird world, yes it's a weird world.

The wind is crying, for the stars,

as they fall like a million silver tears.

Maybe because, we've been putting moon beams in jars.

For so many years.

The trees are dying in sympathy, with the lake.

How much more pollution, can this earth take.

The desert is advancing in accord, with the destruction.

We have out poured.

It's a weird world, yes it's a weird world.

Must we desolate this planet,

must we destroy our home.

Must we chop down every tree.

Must we turn over every stone.

We always have to be in control.

But now we are lost, with no where to go.

Don't we realise where we are.

We are fortunate to get, even this far.

It's a weird world, yes it's a weird world.

What you see

It doesn't worry me,

if you don't like, what you see.

It doesn't bother my conscience,

if I don't please the eye.

I'm the only one,

who has to live with what I have done.

Yes it's only me,

who has to live with what you see.

I didn't come to make a fashion statement.

I came here to work.

I wear my clothes for comfort,

not to look like a upper class jerk.

So what if my shirt is torn.

Big deal if my shoes are a little worn.

It doesn't matter anyway.

Old or new they will be wrecked after today.

Ripped and pulled, stained and soiled.

Oh what a shame, your nice new clothes are spoiled.

What should you care, how I dress and what I wear.

You're no part of my life.

You probably will never see me again.

If you don't like this sight,

close your eyes, and pretend it's night.

If you don't like what you see, stop staring.

Hotel of the lonely.

Where better to be, for a loner like me.

Than the hotel of the lonely.

Listening to the cries,

Of the ghostly haunting memories,

Of what we thought love would be.

But where are the free?

Hanging the slave of thought,

On the lone tree.

Outside the hotel of the lonely.

I'VE COME TO TAKE YOU AWAY

I bet you're thinking, why am I here ?

Or I bet you don't even really care.

But honey, I know better places are out there.

Yes!

I've come to take you.

Come to take you away.

I've come to say,

I love you, baby.

Come to make your day.

Come to answer the prayers, you pray.

I've come to take you away.

I've come to the conclusion,

That your life is an illusion.

Leaving here is the only solution.

Before you die from their propaganda pollution.

I've come to show you.

Without you there's nothing I can do.

I've come to take you away from,

The hustle and bustle of this town.

I've come to take you to, higher ground.

Don't you fret, don't you worry.

I'll get what I want, I'm in no hurry.

Hey just lay back, relax.

I've just come to give you the fax.

It's your choice, whatever you do.

The truth is all I'm telling you.

You just better get out of this place.

Before you lose the smile off your face.

I've come to take you away.

A deep blue sky.

Like a deep blue sky.

Like a kiss goodbye.

Like hidden tears you refuse to cry.

Like when no birds do fly,

Under a deep blue sky.

Even though there's no tears,

I know there's pain.

Even though there's no clouds,

There's soon to be rain.

Like the calm before the storm.

Under a deep blue sky,

Trouble is sure to be born.

You can't hold back the pain,

Forever and a day.

Sooner or later you'll have to give way,

To tears and crying.

Cause inside, your heart is dying.

You soon better, find a release.

Or you'll lose your chance, to have inner peace.

There's no use being a deep blue sky,

Cause sometimes you've got to cry.

Like a deep blue sky.

Like a kiss goodbye.

Like hidden tears you refuse to cry.

Like a hidden secret, with no answer why.

Like when no birds do fly,

Under a deep blue sky.

Even though there's no tears,

I know there's pain.

Even though there's no clouds,

There's soon to be rain.

Like the calm before the storm.

Trouble is sure to be born,

Under a deep blue sky.

Don't go tonight.

Don't go tonight.

I'm lonely and need someone to hold tight.

Stay and share the warmth and the fire light.

Don't go tonight.

Please do stay.

Don't leave me, don't go away.

I don't want to lose you, yet.

Let's have a night we both won't forget.

I need a friend right now.

Find a way to stay some how.

I beg of you don't leave.

If you go, you're going to lose your coat and sleave.

Do you know how loneliness feels ?

Pain is all it ever deals.

Do ever feel the same.

Stay and we can heal each other's pain.

I know you hardly know me.

but tonight we could get to know each other intimately.

But don't feel like you have to.

I'd like you to stay, but it's up to you.

PICTURES IN THE MIND - ECHOES IN THE BRAIN.

I can't forget, I can't forget you.

Don't matter what I say.

Don't matter what I do.

I've got pictures in my mind.

Echoes in my brain.

The memory of you is driving me insane.

I've got the blues like a month full rain.

In the morning I feel like, I've been hit by a train.

My problem is that I still remember,

When we first met on that sunny day in September.

I keep blaming myself for losing you.

All day I'm down, all night I'm blue.

I keep asking myself, why can't I let you go?

You've got a hold on me, like no one could ever know.

I'd be at the centre of the earth, if I was anymore low.

I will always love you so.

I never want to fall in love again.

I just feel too much pain.

I've got pictures in my mind.

Echoes in my brain.

The memory of you is driving me insane.

In the morning I feel like, I've been hit by a train.

Please let me love you again.

Let me love you again.

I don't see why, you should tell me what to do.

Baby I don't mind your advise.

But you telling me how to live, is not nice.

Just remember you don't belong to me,

I don't belong to you.

So I don't see why,

You should tell me what do.

I don't need your permission or your ok.

If I want to do it, I'll do it anyway.

Don't you use emotional black mail.

If you do, I'll pull up my anchor and set sail.

I told you from the start.

I would only break your precious heart.

You're welcome to go, you're welcome to leave.

I will miss you but I won't grieve.

Don't tell me how to lead my life.

Don't tell me how to hold my knife.

I don't care if I get cuts.

I do what I like, no buts,

About it.

Just remember one's poison is another's medicine.

You must think , you can't lose,

If you don't let anyone else win.

You must think that, you've got everyone's perfect fit.

You're a self righteous dictator, that's closer to it.

Don't tell me what to do.

CALLING THE SHOTS.

I call the shots, you just fire.

I run the ring, you just walk the high wire.

I say jump. You say, "Do you want me any higher?"

I'm calling the shots,

I'm leading the band.

You're just here to give me a hand.

Don't question what I say.

It doesn't matter anyway.

I'm in control for today.

When I say music, you better play.

When I say march, you better do so.

When I say out of my way, you better go.

Don't meander, Don't be slow.

When I ask for something, you better not say no.

Who's in charge?

That's me.

And I'll make sure you see,

That I'm the Law and the Authority.

Without me where would you be?

I'm calling the shots.

You bring me down.

Once I was high, high as a kite.

But then you brought me down, in one single nite.

You said you loved me then you said you did not.

And from my highest point in life, I started to drop.

You bring me down, down, down.

You make me feel and look like a clown.

You spread my name all over the town.

You bring me down.

How I wish I never met you.

If I didn't still love you,

I don't know what I would do.

There's not a thing I can do.

Oh how my heart, body and soul aches,

For you.

Like an under current, you draw me out to sea.

You swept me away like sand, as the wave breaks.

Ever since I met you,

There's not a thing that I can't do.

You've got a hold on me.

You're pulling me down, don't you see?

With every step you do take,

A little more of my heart does break.

For you must love to break me.

I beg of you just either leave or take me.

You bring me down.

WHY MUST LOVE BE SUCH A RIDDLE?

I try to say so much but I say so little.

The cat and the dog dance to the fiddle.

Why must love be such a riddle?

I feel so sad, I feel so glad.

I feel so good, I feel so bad.

This thing called love, tears me down the middle.

Why must love be such a riddle?

I think I understand it then I don't.

You say you'll stay,

then you say you won't.

One minute we're laughing,

the next we start to cry.

One day we want to live forever,

the next we wish to die.

Love is like a ferris wheel, up and down,

Love is like a merry-go-round.

It's a mix of a happy and a sad sound.

I feel like changing weather.

One week we're apart, the next we're together.

Must the highs and the lows last forever?

Your friends like me, my friends dislike you.

What shall we say, what shall we do?

Sometimes I'm jealous, sometimes I'm not.

Sometimes I want all you've got.

We do our best, we do our worst.

Our love is blessed, our love is cursed.

I've found nothing of worth.

I've found endless treasure.

All I've found is pain.

All I've found is pleasure.

I try to say so much but I say so little.

The dog and cat dance to the fiddle.

This thing called love tears me down the middle.

Why must love be such a riddle?

Sometimes love seems so brittle.

Can't think of anything.

As I sit here at my desk tonight.

I can't think of anything to write.

The words just don't want to flow.

Where did the inspiration go?

There's no words to explain the way I'm feeling.

As I'm just sitting here wasting the night away.

As I'm making patterns of the spots on the ceiling,

cause there's nothing to be said, and I've got nothing to say.

It's not that there's nothing to write about.

It's just that my mind is a blank.

It's not that I want be this way, it's just that my brain is empty as a drought stricken water tank.

Maybe the critics aren't that wrong.

Maybe I should give up writing poetry and song.

But I enjoy it and there's many a friend who tells me to keep at it.

So I'll keep writing on.

But now I can't think of anything to write.

I'm a poet, I want the world to know it.

Give me a chance and I'll show it.

But right now I can't think of a single syllable.

I can't think of a single line.

But all I need is a little more time.

Can't think of anything to write.

I rack my brain again and again.

But it doesn't want to talk to me.

I want to take my thoughts to the shore of inspiration.

But they don't want to walk with me.

As I sit here at my desk tonight,

I can't think of anything to write.

KIX

Pleasure and pain are, the only drugs that mix.

When you need to escape, the problems you can't fix.

Just go and get some kix. Get some kix! Get some kix!

Turn up the heat, set the town a blaze.

Wake up boy, get out of that daze.

Put down that needle, there's better ways,

To get your kix. Go on boy, reach for a higher, high.

Just remember only the good die.

Don't be so afraid, don't give in to your fear.

If you don't take a chance, you're no where.

You're neither there or here.

Go on jump from a thousand feet up.

Soar to a higher height,

Fall to deeper depth.

Excitement steals your breath.

Try some adventure. Why should you always drink,

The same drink, from the same cup?

Try some real danger, why not surf the cyclonic sea?

The best things in life are either cheap or free.

Pleasure and pain are, the only drugs that mix.

When you need to escape, the problems you can't fix.

Just go and get some kix. Get some kix! Get some kix!

A FALLING STAR.

A falling star, that's what we are.

We're nothing, but a falling star.

The higher you get to the top,

The further you have to drop.

Lose your friends, fame and your fortune,

As you streak past the platinum moon.

That's what we are, nothing but a falling star.

A giant tree in the forest of life,

But they will chop you down, with their pocket knife.

They then burn you, like fire wood.

Cause once you're dead, you're twice as good.

Then they take what's left and build a shroud.

And charge entry to the morning crowd.

Lost in space on a cosmic trip.

Beam me up Scotty, to that Hollywood spaceship.

Once a great star, now a meteor.

Once a hero, but no more.

I don't care if you're right or wrong.

It's just an emptier sky, now that you are gone.

Like a beached whale stuck on shore,

No one will help you, out to sea anymore.

Just waiting for you to pass away.

So they can feast off you, if they may.

POOR TINY NOT THERE

Nobody loves you, nobody does care.

Nobody knows you, nobody is there, for you.

When you belong no where.

Sweet little nothing, poor tiny not there.

No place to sleep, no place to call home.

You know soon, you'll probably die cold and alone.

As you sleep in the park, under yesterday's paper.

In your pocket they'll find a note that'll read,

GOODBYE CRULE WORLD, SEE YOU LATER. I ONLY WISH

YOU UNDERSTOOD ME, FOR THE PERSON I HAPPEN TO BE.

SURE MY LIFE WAS FAIRLY BAD, BUT JUST REMEMBER THAT

THERE'S ALWAYS SOMEONE ELSE WITH THINGS TWICE AS SAD.

Who can I give my change to? I'll miss talking to you.

And having someone, to tell me to carry on.

You once told me "Doesn't matter what or who you are.

Stay brave, be proud and strong."

You might be lost, but you're no loser.

You're just a drifting cruiser, looking for your port.

Looking for your destination,

Search for your place in life,

Searching for your station.

Like a wildebeest, you wander the modern savannah.

You've been to many a town like, Tombstone or Narvarna.

The ghosts ain't in the town, but in your head.

They don't haunt the saloon,

But haunt your mind instead.

But they are only the spirits of fear, and distrust.

Leave them behind, you know you must.

You carry on, like a lone soldier.

Fighting your one man war, of survival.

EVERYTHING IS GONE.

Everything for you.

Everything for me.

Everything we ever lived for, is gone for eternity.

Everything is gone. Everything is gone.

Gone are the forests, gone are the trees.

Gone are the birds, the flowers and the bees.

No more is there a reason,

to put up with the every day grind.

No more is there a reason, not to go out of your mind.

Gone is the dreaming, gone is the hope.

Gone is the relaxation, and the way to cope.

No longer can our children, play at the park in safety.

No one has rights, no one has peace and security.

On another planet, place me.

Disappeared like rabbits down a burrow.

What was free today, you pay for tomorrow.

It's true, that the best things in life were free.

But now everytime you enjoy them, someone asks for a...fee.

ARSON

Fire fascination

Burning cinders, dancing in the breeze

House now ash and dust.

TURTLE

Submarine surfaced

Dives for cover of muddy deep

to escape child's grasp

COMPLEMENTARY

The rain and the sunshine

Autumn leaves and spring flowers

The last completes the first

OPPOSITE

The fast and the slow

The wicked and the righteous

No good without bad

Evil is not the source of all money.

Neither is money the source of all evil.

The mouse dies to make room for the rat.

What uses is a puppet without string?

And what use is string without a puppet?

Hiding behind your news paper.

Wishing to disappear like vapour.

Knowing he has your reflection in his sight.

Thinking of his reflected stare all night.

JUST CAUSE YOU TELL ME TO.

I ain't gonna do, just cause you tell me to.

I ain't gonna do, just cause you tell me to.

I don't believe a word from you.

I need to know how, where, when and why.

I want to know the outcome, before I give it a try.

I don't believe you, when you say it's ok.

I will check it out anyway.

Ain't going to be your slave,

Ain't going to be your fool.

I want to make sure everything is cool.

I won't jump out of the fire, into your plate.

I'll find out if you're telling lies,

Before it's too late.

I trust friends, but you're no friend of mine.

You lie through your teeth,

As you swear on your mother's grave.

You know everything is falling apart,

But you say it is just fine.

You're no friend of mine.

The more you say trust me, the more I beware.

The more you say don't worry, the more I care.

I just wonder, when will the deceit end?

And when will you, a true message send?

Many say, why must we question everything?

But we do it, for a better world to bring.

We search to discover and explore.

To find better answers than we had before.

We ain't gonna do, just cause you tell us to.

We don't believe a word from you.

We ain't gonna do, just cause you tell us to.

NOBODY HERE*

I hear them on the outside, but I want to stay in.

They're trying to bring me back, but they won't win.

On a life support system.

This ain't living, it's mere existence.

And I'm getting sick of your damn persistence.

Why can't you say goodbye, then let me go?

There is nothing here for me, don't you know.

Now my computer doesn't calculate,

And my motor can't roar.

I don't want to be here anymore.

Nobody here, nobody home.

Just let me be, Just leave me alone.

Let me die in peace today,

Just go for a walk, just go away.

Nobody here, nobody home.

Don't open my eyes, cause I don't want to see.

The crule things, they've done to me.

Let me escape this nightmare dream.

All you need to do, is turn off this machine.

Don't want to be a brain in a jar.

Don't want to be another plush toy,

Looking out the back window of your car.

Don't want to be here. Don't want to be here.

How long will I be stuck, between heaven and hell?

I want to leave, can't you tell.

Remember me as a man, not a vegetable.

I pray that from my body, these wires and tubes.

You will pull.

I'm ready to go, to the other side.

I'm not afraid, no longer in this body,

Do I need to hide.

Now here on earth, I feel like a burnt out,

Discarded cigarette.

Alone in life's ash tray.

If I could talk "I love you, don't be sad,

Be strong. Please let me go." is what I would say.

Nobody here, nobody home.

Just let me be, just leave me alone.

Just let me die in peace today.

Just go for a walk, just go away.

Nobody here, nobody here.

WEDDING WHIGHT...

Don't fear the one in red scarlet, or black midnite.

Watch out for the one in wedding whight.

Her kisses are worse than, her bite.

You should fear her chains, not her height.

She'll say, she will be your angel for one night.

She'll tie you down, she won't let go, she'll hold on tight.

Once upon a time you could resist.

You put up a fight.

Until you met the one in wedding whight.

She steals your heart, quicker than thunder.

She steals your thunder, she takes the wind from your kite.

Keep clear from the one in wedding whight.

I started to dream, what a sight.

I saw wedding rings linked into a chain, that ties you down.

Horror of horrors, you've got commitments.

You're living in your own home, with three kids.

On the south side of town.

You've got a full time job.

You've been working at the same place for seven years.

This marriage thing is the reality of all your fears.

Did I hear wedding bells?

She must have fixed a love potion, to help her cast her spells.

Hope I have time to break free, before she gets a hold on me.

See you later.

I must go before, she steals my heart and soul.

So don't say you weren't warned.

About the one in wedding whight, on your wedding night.

LOVE FEVER

By the time I had got a hold on you, I had got the love ills too.

I'm in a cold sweat.

And we haven't even kissed yet.

I've got a fever. Never felt this way in the past.

But I hope it will last.

I never thought of true love before, but now I am a true believer.

I've got a love fever.

I'm hot all over, my pupils dilate.

I'm high on love. I'm feeling great.

My temperature is rising, my blood pressure just hit the roof.

I'm a love sick puppy to tell the truth.

I feel like I could run a hundred miles.

I'm sure there's things to be read, into my laughter and smiles.

Let the neighbours talk. Let the world know, I'm in love.

Why hide something that feels so good.

I will tell everyone how I feel, because I think I should,

share my joy.

Don't call the doctor, I'm the best I've ever been.

I feel like I'm still sixteen.

I don't feel ill, I just feel a little light headed. I feel a little weird. I don't know why love is a thing, I ever feared.

I've got a love fever.

TERRY

With trust you have caution. With every emotion you have the opposite in a measured proportion. But please believe me, that I would like to be just a friend. To be there to help you through the bad times, and let you know that someone does care. Terry you're so beautiful. Terry you're so very kind. If I ever lie to you, may I go mute, deaf and blind. You are the falling star, in the midnight blue. I'd like to reach out and catch you before you disappear. And I'd like to bring you, a diamond for each and every tear you ever cried. Terry you're so very mysterious. You are like a lost treasure, deep beneath the sea. You have many hidden talents, like gold deep within the earth. Uncover them my dear, and show the world your worth. Terry you are so very you. Terry you have individuality. And even in a prison, your heart and soul would be free. You're different, there's no one else quite the same. You have your own rules for life's crule game. Terry you're so very much afraid. Terry don't you fear. I am always around, I'm always near. I'll be your friend, till life on earth does end. When you fall, I will help you back on your feet again. Don't you see, you have nothing to fear from me? Terry you're so very compassionate. I'm glad you're the one, I did find to talk to. In that lonely crowd. Ever since my spirit, with the memory of you, has been empowered. When I'm confused I think of you. And I know that you would know what to do, in any situation. Terry you're so very wise. Terry you're so very you. I love everything you say and do.

THE GINGER BREAD MAN.

Come, come take me as I am.

For I am the ginger bread man.

Hot and spicy, sweet and tangy.

Come on baby, think of what can be.

Let me be your sweet bread.

Tasty from my toes to my head.

When you're hungry for love, come to me.

I'll satisfy your appetite, completely.

Come, come take me as I am.

For I am the ginger bread man.

Sweet and tangy, hot and spicey.

Just the way you like me.

Hot and fresh, pre ovened.

Love is the law, by which my life is governed.

I'm a tasty little biscuit, big bite.

Your own sweet thing, day or night.

I am the ginger bread man.

BABY, BABY.

Baby, Baby don't be blue.

I'm always here for you.

Baby, Baby don't be sad.

I'm for your own good,

I'm really not that bad.

Baby, Baby don't fell down.

Call my name and I'll come around.

Baby, Baby OH

Lady, Lady let's go

Baby, Baby I just love you.

Baby, Baby I really do.

Baby, Baby don't you see.

Lady, Lady you're the only one for me.

Baby, Baby don't be afraid.

Our love is already made.

Baby, Baby don't you cry.

I'll never say goodbye.

Our love will never die.

Baby, Baby don't you cry.

SILVER CITY ON THE PLATINUM MOON.

I NEED TO ESCAPE TO ANOTHER WORLD.

I NEED THE LOVE OF A SPACED OUT GIRL.

I NEED A PLANET OF MY OWN.

I NEED AND WANT YOU ALONE.

MY COSMIC CHILD YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO.

HOPE WE WILL GET THERE SOON.

TO SILVER CITY ON THE PLATINUM MOON.

ACROSS THE UNIVERSE ACROSS THE ROOM.

TO SILVER CITY ON THE PLATINUM MOON.

WHERE LIFE IS SLOWER,

WHERE EVERYONE PLAYS TO A DIFFERENT TUNE.

DOWN HERE THEY MINE YOUR MIND,

AND DON'T LEAVE A TRACE OF MEMORY BEHIND

BUT IT'S DIFFERENT OUT IN SPACE.

INNER, OUTER SPACE THE NEW WILD WEST.

UNDISCOVERED BY ALL THE REST.

LEAVE THE WORST, TAKE THE BEST.

OH WOW! WE'RE IMPRESSED.

LEAVE THIS EARTH OF DOOM AND GLOOM.

TO SILVER CITY ON THE PLATINUM MOON.

ACROSS THE UNIVERSE ACROSS THE ROOM.

WHEN I DIE, BURY ME IN A SATIN TOMB.

IN SILVER CITY ON THE PLATINUM MOON.

BURNT

YOU AIN'T LEARNT, TILL YOU GET BURNT.

YOU PLAY WITH FIRE, TILL YOU FEEL THE HEAT.

LOVE IS A GAME YOU JUST CAN'T BEAT.

YOU AIN'T LEARNT, TILL YOU GET BURNT.

I'VE PLAYED THE GAME OF LOVE.

I'VE GOT THE SCARS TO PROVE IT.

WHEN A GIRL ADMITS SHE LOVES YOU TOO,

IT'S TIME TO MOVE IT.

I'VE PLAY WITH OTHERS EMOTIONS.

BUT NOW I'M DROWNING IN ONE OF MY TEARY OCEANS.

LOVE CUTS LIKE A KNIFE.

IT MESSES UP YOUR LIFE.

IT BURNS UP YOUR SOUL,

LEAVES YOU FEELING LIKE AN EMPTY BREAKFAST BOWL.

NOW IN SEARCH OF THE UNATTAINABLE.

WHY LOVE HAS SUCH A HOLD IS UNEXPLAINABLE.

LOOKING UNDER ROCK, SEARCH IN A CAVE,

FOR THE LOVE WE WISH, WE ALL WOULD HAVE GAVE.

IN THE PRISON OF OUR MIND.

We are our own prisoners of war.

Cause we don't know why, we have feelings for.

We're told we don't need them anymore.

Close our eyes or the door.

We are our own prisoners of war.

In the prison of our mind.

Not a trace of love is left behind.

The capture of the world we wish to find.

In the prison of our mind.

We are fools living a lie.

As we're watching the truth slowly die.

We're not to ask how, where or why.

We are fools living a lie.

They say "Kill all who do rebel."

Is this Utopia, Heaven or Hell?

We're under their hypnotic spell.

Kill all who do rebel.

Don't show fear, don't show hate.

The well of feelings are deep and great.

But hide that smile before it's too late.

Don't show fear, don't show hate.

EUPHORIA

Euphoria

You and all of ya.

You will be free.

You, them and me.

Baby don't you feel it in the air?

A revolution every where.

Rise up, like the sun rises to meet a new day

Rising up for a better way.

Hands together one and all.

Stand up to watch the powers fall.

Freedom from their useless law.

Can't you hear freedom call?

Come one and all.

Come answer freedom's call.

Come rise to fight,

For what is your right **.**

Come be strong and brave.

Or remain as their slave.

Slaves die broken men in the end.

So come rise my friend.

Fight for yourself and your offspring.

A better future bring.

Come defend our fellow man.

We should do all we can.

Euphoria, Euphoria.

doing time

Doing time doing time

Imprisoned by this welfare

They pay us so we'll be quiet

They pay us so we don't riot

We'll get by with some stealing as well as some begging

And on the sides a little boot legging

Stuck in the mire of poverty

Pray that one day we do get free

Can't send Johny to school ain't got the books

Jenny his sister is hanging out with drugies and crooks

She ends up in a "home"

Full of hate and all alone

Dies before she is sixteen

Sometime life is so mean

Johny works three days a week

He works so hard all the next day he does sleep

Don't earn anymore than on welfare

But Johny he don't care

His job gives him pride

And a warm feeling deep inside

He takes come what may

Everything will be ok

But sometimes he feels like he's in prison

Like he's only got what he's been given

Is this really life is this really living

But one day we won't buy it

They can't stop us don't matter how they try it

We will arise

We will see the fear in their eyes

For now we are doing time doing time

SILENT FEAR

Silent fear.

You still smile, you never lose a tear.

Silent fear.

Distrust and disillusion.

Your heart and your mind starts to disagree.

When will this fear, set you free.

Afraid to get close to the fire,

In case you get a burn.

But if you don't take a chance, you will never learn.

You will never learn a single thing.

Because you miss out on the experience,

That facing your fear does bring.

Hiding in your shell.

Never listening to anything, anyone else has to tell.

Believe.

Believing your little compact world, is the only one.

Afraid to let go of your fear and start having some fun.

Afraid of the dark, afraid of the light.

Feeling in fear both day and night.

Scared to move on, scared to stand still.

Frightened of oblivion, frightened of overkill.

Every star has it's day.

Then it does faid away.

To become a meteor.

So find a cause worth living for.

Silent fear.

Afraid of what you might see.

Afraid of what you might hear.

You still smile, you never lose a tear.

Silent fear.

I COULD SAY I LOVE YOU.

I could say I love you,

But words are sure to tell lies.

And I can't lie to you, baby.

When I look into your eyes.

I could say I need you,

Forever and a day.

But there's no guaranty,

That I will always feel this way.

There's a million things, I could say to you.

But what use are any of them, if they never come true?

By a few things said. By a few words spoken.

There has been many hearts and promises broken.

I don't want to build a falsified hope.

I don't want to build a dream world,

Only then to send it up in smoke.

I could say, you're the only one for whom I care.

But when you're in need of me, I might not be there.

I could say I'd give you diamonds and pearls.

But I might end up giving them,

To another one of those girls.

I could say I love you.

I could say I love you, but would it be true.

Rules

You have rules for how to live, and how to die.

There's rules on when to laugh and when to cry.

Everything must be done just so, but I won't do what you ask.

NO!NO!NO!

I won't play by your rules, I won't live by your rules.

I won't be a puppet.

I won't be one of your fools.

I won't be another one of your toys, I won't be another of your tools.

I won't live by your rules.

I don't listen to a word you say.

It might be your game, but I ain't going to play.

I ain't going to play by your rules.

If I was meant to be a robot, I would have been born one.

If I was meant to kill someone, god would have personally given me a gun.

If I was meant to be a puppet, I would have had strings attached.

If I was meant to burn, I would have been a match.

I was meant to do everything you said.

I wouldn't have been born with a brain in my head.

If I was not meant to question, and just do.

I would have understood you.

I ain't going to live by your rules.

I ain't going to play by your rules.

Paranoia

Paranoia!

Paranoia!

Your scared again.

You don't even trust your best friend.

From your own shadows you runaway.

A game with your thoughts, your mind does play.

You see things that are never there.

Why is it, you're so easy to scare?

Paranoia! Paranoia! Paranoia!

Scared stiff, frightened to death.

You've lost your mind, you're out of breath.

Paranoia!

Spooked by the slightest sound,

in the land of extremes,

is where your imagination is found.

Don't you worry, don't you fear,

There's nothing to harm you here.

But every one is under suspicion.

Reality is twisted beyond recognition.

Everything to you seems strange and weird.

Everybody is not to be trusted.

Everything is to be feared.

You're nervous as a rabbit.

This fright is becoming a habit.

Your eyes are tearful,

YOUR heart is fearful.

Your PARANOID.

LITTLE SALLY

There's a girl called Sally.

She always seems to be on that park bench.

Just sitting there drawing pictures,

That's how her time is spent.

People stop to watch her practice her art.

At sunrise, Sally is up ready to start.

She draws....

Pictures of the people going by.

Pictures of a sunrise or a sunset sky.

Pictures of the birds as they fly on high

Pictures of the buildings of the town.

Pictures of any and every thing around.

Draw, Draw Little Sally.

Draw the obvious.

Draw only what you can see.

Draw, Draw Little Sally.

Draw the conclusion of the truth.

Most of all Sally draw close to me.

She sells her sketches at the markets,

To live another day.

To buy more paper and pencils,

To draw her boredom away.

I wish I could go tell her,

How I wish she was with me.

But she seems so happy being alone.

So happy being free.

UNIVERSEI.

We are one, one species, one planet.

Satellited by one moon. Elements of one solar system,

Heated by one star, one sun, one constellation,

One universe. This belief of one is called Universei.

Universei, we are all one.

Freedom, do as one wishes.

Love, to share one's emotions with someone.

Sex, to embody someone.

For this very Universei.

We must be all one.

Because if we are not one.

There will be nothing remaining.

There will be no ONE.

Black moon, white sun.

There is a black moon and a white sun.

Oh my god! What have we done?

Started a war, no one could have won.

Everyone looking down a barrel of a loaded gun.

There is a black moon and a white sun.

Not safe to walk the streets alone.

Not safe even in our own home.

It's a war zone.

A crime of convenience.

A crime of passion.

A crime of the times.

A crime of fashion.

But there's no excuse.

Steal from the rich and powerful.

Steal from the weak and the poor.

There's no distinction anymore.

Take from one's excess.

Take from one's need.

Once a prince of thieves,

Now a prince of greed.

A crime wave drowns the world.

Where's Noah and his ark, when you need him?

Take your chance to become a criminal.

Only to become a victim.

Raped of all dignity.

They stole your will to live.

Your will to fight.

Will you die in fear or die of fright?

Jobless, faceless drug addiction.

No direction, no way out.

Just a crime conviction.

Die in jail or die on the street,

From a worn out heart and worn out feet.

The tears I cry may drown us all.

How I pray the sky might fall,

To cover our sins, to cover our pain.

To cover the past, so we can start again.

THERE'S PLENTY OF....

There's plenty of fish in the sea.

But you're the only catch for me.

There's plenty of wheat in the field.

But you're the grain I want yield.

There's plenty of car parks in the market.

But you're the space where I want to park it.

There's plenty of jewels in the mine.

But you're a diamond in the rough, that'll do me fine.

There's plenty of butterflies in the air.

But you're the Cairns Birdwing, for which I care.

There's plenty of apples in a bunch.

But you're the delicious, I want to crunch.

There's plenty of women in the world.

But for me, you're the best, my one and only girl.

Pen and Paper

Pen and paper, rhythm and rhyme.

Am I just wasting time?

Will I win you over, with poems and song?

Or just like all the rest,

In the morning will you be gone?

Don't want a goodbye forever kiss.

Baby all I want is you, my pretty miss.

Don't want breakfast in bed.

Baby I want you to stay instead.

No strings attached, is what I said.

But I've fallen in love, instead,

Yes without you, I'd go delirious.

Yes I'm afraid that this, love thing has got serious.

It was so good, the time we spent together.

I'm sure it should be like this forever.

Will I ever convince you?

That this is not a mere passing fancy,

Something beautiful but short lived like a morning mist.

I would like time to show you, my love.

Show you my love is really true.

Pen and paper, rhythm and rhyme.

Am I just wasting time?

FIRST PLANE OUT OF AMERICA.

First plane out of America,

And I'm out of here.

First plane out of America,

Got to find my way clear.

Waiting on the tarmac.

Once I'm gone, there's no looking or turning back.

Sure there's nice people, sure it's a nice place.

But I got to escape this rat race.

Working in this manmade biosphere.

I keep asking, how can any one live here?

I've enjoyed my stay.

But I've got to get on my way.

Come rain, come shine.

I've got to go this time.

I don't care what I leave behind.

Set to fly my way out of heaven and hell.

My visa's running out and it's just as well.

Goodbye and good riddance to the land of...

Freedom, Justice and Peace.

Tell me, when will they fix things up?

When will their dreaming cease?

First plane out of America.

I'm out of here.

We are we?

WHERE ARE WE?

LOST IN A CITY OF DREAMS.

WHERE ARE WE?

FOUND IN A DREAM OF CITIES.

WHERE ARE WE?

TIME KEEPS CHANGING .

Time keeps changing, we keep shifting.

Are we destined to keep on drifting?

On and on, on and on.

The Gypsy in your soul is so strong,

So very strong.

Must we always keep going, from town to town?

My life is half packed and upside down.

I can't get my feet back on the ground.

Losing all the friends I've ever found.

Changing, shifting, rearranging.

All of this, our love is straining.

Why can't you settle down somewhere?

You don't think of me, it's so unfair.

You expect me to follow along.

But this way, I can't carry on.

I love you more than I could ever say.

But I don't want to move away.

Here is my home, here is where I want to stay.

To be here till my dying day.

It's not that I don't love you so.

But there's no where else I wish to go.

I've found peace in this place.

So why off to some where else, must we race?

INSPIRATION.

You're my inspiration.

You're my elevation.

You take me so high.

You showed me how to fly.

You're my occupation.

You always inspire.

You set my imagination on fire.

Without you my ability to make a master piece,

Would disappear, my creativity would just cease.

You're my every idea.

My mixed up head, you did clear.

You give me reason, to be alive.

You're the reason, I still fight to survive.

When I want to sleep in, you get me up in time.

When I brake the law, you save me the fine.

I don't know what I would do.

If I didn't have you.

All I will say.

Is that I'm glad, you came my way.

You're poetry in motion.

Your fire red hair, eyes like a green ocean.

In every way, you're a beauty.

You mean the world to me.

For you I live, for you I'd die.

Pray that we may never say goodbye.

FAIR WELL, SO LONG.

Fair well, so long.

I've got to move on.

Can't keep living if the joy of life is gone.

Fair well, so long.

There's no fire, if there's no flame.

There's no pleasure, if all that is here is pain.

It's not that I don't love you,

Believe me when I say I do.

Just that we don't seem to be able to work it through.

It brakes my heart to say goodbye.

I better go before I brake down and cry.

To leave is the only thing to do, now.

I'm afraid it's got out of hand somehow.

All we ever do is argue.

We can't patch things up, even if we wanted to.

Believe me when I say, I'm glad we met.

But I don't think, we have found our place in life yet.

So don't be sad that we must go our separate ways.

Just remember,

Together we've shared some of our best days.

We can't be lovers, but I hope we can still be friends.

Cause one day my roving days will meet their ends.

But until then ...

Fair well, so long.

I've got to move on.

I can't keep living if the joy of life is gone.

Fair well, so long.

FOLLOW MY DREAM.

If everything that glittered was gold.

In my hand a fortune I'd hold.

If every dream came true,

You'd be rich too.

But just dreaming will get you no where.

Don't matter how hard you dream,

Or how much you care.

I've got to follow my dream.

Go where, no one else has been.

I've got to pursue my hope,

Before my world goes up in smoke.

I've got to find the best way,

Before the dream fades away.

I've got to find my own road,

Find where I'm to go.

Find where I belong.

Follow my dream, right or wrong.

Before my dream is gone.

I've got to follow my dream.

SHELTER OF THE DARK.

Some say I'm hiding, some say I live in fear.

But I wish to make my views clear.

Just because I live in the night.

Does mean I'm wrong or right.

It's just that, I only feel secure in the darkness.

There I can hide from the world so heartless.

I find shelter in the dark.

From the pain in my heart,

From this world which tears itself apart.

There is refuge in the shelter of the dark.

Hiding secrets in it's blackened veil.

It's the only thing that,

Won't put your secrets up for sale

When I'm in the dark,

It's the only time I feel safe here.

When the light comes again I wish I could disappear.

We all need our shelter, we all need a special place.

And mine is in the darkest deepest space.

We all need to go to somewhere,

Where we feel safe the most.

The dark protects me from light's all revealing ghost.

In the night's shadows are where I can hide.

When no one is on my side.

When the whole world is against me.

To the dark I go to be safe, to stay free.

LOVE ME LIKE A STRANGER.

Love me, love me, love me like a stranger.

Let me protect you from danger.

It's best to play it safe.

It's fun to play, hard to get.

Let's pretend, that we've just met.

The best thing about a present, is unwrapping it,

We've both had others along the way.

It's best to cover our step, is what I'm trying to say.

There's many things, we could have come in contact with.

A safer love is what I want to give.

It's just that I want to cover myself and do my part.

It's not that I'm saying,

That I'm a sleaze or you're a tart.

Just let's protect things, before we start.

If you care for yourself, like I care for you.

It's not on till it's on, then we can do,

What we both would like to do.

No use saying it won't happen to me.

Because if you take enough chances, it will eventually.

Safe sex is fun, safe sex is good.

Don't take this kind of risk, no one should.

Love me, love me, love me like a stranger.

Let me protect you from danger.

It's best to play it safe.

It's fun to play, hard to get.

Let's pretend, that we've just met.

The best thing about a present, is unwrapping it.

Love me like a stranger.

WILD JACK.

This is the story of Wild Jack,

His mother an indian squaw.

And his father an unfairly accused outlaw.

Jack's father, John came home,

To find his sister being raped by the sheriff.

With one shot,

He gave the sheriff, what he should have got.

Tearfully his sister lay on the bed.

But the sheriff lay on the floor.

With a bullet in his head.

Now he lays under the maple tree.

Like always the "law" was declared innocent,

And the innocent declared guilty.

So John escaped and ranaway, to stay free.

And became an apache.

Two years after Wild Jack being born.

John was hung, from his family he was torn.

Wild Jack's mother, White Crow said.

"Before John left, he left his legacy.

The words, Wild Jack, you now hear from me."

He said,

"Wild Jack, ain't no turning back.

Once you do something, you've got live with that.

Stick to your guns.

Follow where the river of your soul runs.

There's no turning back, Wild Jack."

Wild Jack grew up to be a young man,

That would do any father proud.

And sure enough, John is just that.

As he sits on his cloud.

One day when Wild Jack was hunting alone.

His tribe was killed, every one.

So Wild Jack turned back to town,

With his loaded six gun.

He found out that his tribe was killed by the cavalry.

So Wild Jack waited in ambush, to serve justice equally.

He killed the last man, as he himself was shot dead.

All the while, the words his father said,

Ran through his head.

Wild Jack, ain't no turning back.

Once you do something, you've got to live with that.

Stick to your guns.

Follow where the river of your soul runs.

There's no turning back, Wild Jack.

DON'T SAY THAT IT'S OVER.

I ain't no super man.

But I do what I can.

To get by and help others get by too.

So if you need a hand, let me know and I'll help you.

Don't say it's over, till you hear the fat lady sing.

And just remember that I can do almost anything.

We can make dreams come true.

Come give it a try.

We can touch the stars, once we learn how to fly.

I can't save the world, but I can save you the pain.

Come leave it behind again.

Two heads are better than one, so they say.

So together let's always stay.

I help you, you help me,

And we'll get by eventually.

Don't say we must give in,

Even when we're down and out.

If they say it's time to let it go,

Just remember they don't know,

What they are talking about.

Don't say it's over, till you hear the fat lady sing.

Just remember we can do almost anything.

You can do almost anything.

DON'T BE AFRAID TO FALL IN LOVE.

Don't be afraid to fall in love.

Don't be afraid to spread your wings and fly above.

High as a eagle, at peace like a dove.

Don't be afraid to try some romance.

Don't be afraid to get up and dance.

Sometimes you've got to take a chance.

Don't be afraid to fall in love.

Go on babe, let your hair down.

Get ready and we'll hit the wild side of this town.

Give me your heart and I'll never break it.

Here's your chance, so come and take it.

True love is worth the search.

I'll love you, till I fall dead off my perch.

And even if I am telling you a lie.

You need someone to love, so why not give me try.

Anyway a little love, won't hurt you.

And we're both lonely with nothing to do.

Who's to say, this love is not true?

BANG, BANG, BANG MY DREAM IS DEAD.

Bang, bang, bang my dream is dead.

I can't believe, what you just said.

You broke my heart,

Your words are still ringing in my head.

Now all your love and words of kindness, add up to zed.

Bang, bang, bang my dream is dead.

All you said was goodbye,

You made me brake down and cry.

I thought I could trust you, but I guess not.

And when I tell you, I love you.

Now you say, so what.

So what am I to do, now you're gone?

I don't think I can carry on.

I don't want fare well, I don't want so long.

I'll do anything, to show how I feel.

I'll do anything, to prove my love for you is real.

I've got a dream, but it can only come true.

If you're loving me and I'm loving you.

It is no use love being one sided.

A house can't stand when it's divided.

I thought all you needed, is what I provided.

But I guess I was misguided.

EVERYTHING HAS IT'S PRICE.

Everything has it's price.

Even God is sacrificed.

When it comes to love and money,

Nothing gets in the way.

Everything has it's price.

Even God is sacrificed.

You can get anything,

If you're willing to pay.

What would you do for a million?

I bet you would do anything for a billion.

What if I forget your crime?

Would you give me some of your time?

If I permitted you to build a skyrise,

Would you take care of my year's supplies?

And if the police went on strike,

Would you go and thieve and riot for a night?

So you see ,the corrupter and corruptee are only human.

And given the chance and circumstance.

The things they do,

We would likely do them too.

The ghost of our love.

Every time I look at another,

I keep seeing the ghost of my first lover.

Every time I see the ghost of your memory.

The ghost of our love.

A spirit from hell below or heaven above?

This ghost of our love is haunting me.

What is this, what will it be?

Every day I see her in the crowd.

Every night I see her in a shroud.

Why do I still have you on my mind?

Why can't I leave you behind?

For I keeping seeing you.

Everywhere I go, everything I do.

The ghost of our love.

A spirit from hell below or heaven above?

Am I going insane?

I just can't take the haunts again,

From the ghost of our love.

BLOOD NOT LOVE

You want blood not love,

What a fool I've been.

You want blood not love,

What a fool I am, to let you suck me dry,

To let you suck me in.

You want blood not love,

That now, I clearly see.

You want blood not love.

You only wanted to feast off me.

You've eaten my flesh and drank my blood.

And it's not even my last evening meal.

I'm sure you don't know, and you don't care,

How I must feel.

You spent all my money, crashed all my cars.

And if I can't pay for the damage

I'll end up behind bars.

You stole my friends, now they take your side.

Next time you're hitchhiking, I won't give you a ride.

You have ruined my reputation.

You have ruined my life.

You promised me paradise.

But all you brought me was tribulation.

I should have seen those fangs,

When you grinned and showed your teeth.

If I did, I would have saved myself a lot of grief.

END OF IT ALL.

All in all, it's just the end of it all.

A crumbling system starting to fall.

You can't patch things up anymore.

This is the last call.

All in all, it's the end of it all.

Soon the world as you know it will be gone.

Soon your money won't even be worth,

The paper it's printed on.

No longer will it be the survival,

Of the wicked and the strong.

Soon the world as you know it will be gone.

You tell us to be in peace,

But you still produce billions of dollars worth of arms.

And you wear them like lucky charms.

But in the end they are no protection.

When six foot under is the only direction,

In which to go.

And you won't be the one closing the curtain,

At the end of the show.

Turn back, turn around.

The sky is falling down.

All the trees are dying and turning brown.

Turn back, turn around.

Infertile you've made the ground.

Turn back, turn around.

Before we lose all we ever found.

Mary go round and round.

Mary go round, go round

Mary go round, go round and around.

Stop your spinning then you fall back down.

How does it feel, to be a roulette wheel?

Spinning like a top till you drop.

You have no direction, like a child,

Dancing around the maypole.

One day you're indecision will take its toll.

You're not sure of anything.

Some time's I wonder, if you know night from day?

All you do is change your mind and waste your life away.

You can't make up your mind whether to, love or hate.

You can't decide whether to throw a kiss or a plate.

I know life is confusing,

But you add to the complication.

You've got to take your stand and face the situation.

DIANNA DON'T YOU SEE.

Dianna, Dianna don't you see?

Dianna, what you are doing to me?

You're tearing me apart.

**You're breaking** **my heart.**

You're destroying me part by part.

You had killed our love before it did start.

Dianna, Dianna don't you see?

You are destroying me.

One day you say you love me,

The next day you say you don't.

One day you let me have you,

The next day you won't.

Dianna, Dianna don't you see?

You're driving me to insanity.

One time you'll say, you're only mine.

Then later, you've got the boys waiting in line.

Dianna don't you see?

I'm the only one for you,

You're the only one for me.

Don't, don't do it.

Don't, don't do it.

I didn't think I'd live through it.

Battered and bruised, cut and crying.

You beat me to the edge of dying.

That's why I left you.

Don't put a hand on me.

I'll kill you if you try to.

How long did you think I'd stay?

Come another step closer and I'll blow you away.

Believe me I ain't faking it.

No more am I taking it.

The yelling, the swearing, the hits, the fights.

Now I'm standing up for my rights.

It's a shame I once loved you.

But now that's something I can't do.

Why can't you leave the present you behind?

You used to be so loving and kind.

I know you tried, to get the better you back.

But the evil you, keeps sending you off the track.

The violent you would always return.

It's like you're an arsonist,

With the need to see me burn.

You had your last chance and you blew it.

Don't dare hit me,

Or your body will have a bullet hole through it.

I'm running out on you.

Running out of time,

Running out of words.

I'm running out on you.

I'm running away because you and I,

Can't work it out and there's nothing I can do.

I'm running scared,

I'm running fast.

I'm running on empty,

And this can't last.

I'll take my chances in the race of life.

But I won't take a chance with you and a knife.

You hit me till I bleed, till I bruise.

You hurt me with words like,

"You're no good, you'll always lose."

I love you, but I hate your ugly side.

For when it comes out there's no where to hide.

I running down hill to the bottom of the pit.

This is not where I belong, I just don't fit.

These are the days, for a change for the better.

When I'm gone, I won't ring or write you a letter.

It's best to start from scratch again.

Cause the more I think of you, the more I feel pain.

COME ON AND ROCK.

Come on and rock,

Give it all you've got.

Time to shock.

Come on and rock.

Get on the floor.

It's time to rock once more.

Time to work up a sweat.

Time to let down your hair.

Time to forget.

Let your wild horses free.

Come ride with me.

And I'll show you things,

You never thought you could see.

I've come to rock and roll,

To get you to dance is tonight's main goal.

So get on your feet,

Move your body to the beat.

You could have stayed at home,

And sit on a chair.

So get up and move over there.

And do your stuff.

Once you're started you can't get enough.

Don't be afraid, don't be shy.

Just let the music, kiss your troubles goodbye.

Don't you let the chance pass you by.

Do your best, give it a try.

Don't let a chance get away.

Get up and sway,

Don't let the night end.

Without you getting on the floor, my friend.

Come on let the music get to you.

Come on the floor.

It's the best things to do.

Don't you see?

You're the only one for me.

But I like you best on the floor.

So get up and dance some more.

Come on and rock with me.

swallow

All you do is talk shit,

I've had enough of it.

Your only throne, is the toilet seat on which you sit.

A six pack of toilet rolls, is your survival kit.

One day you'll have to swallow.

One day you'll have to swallow.

Sooner or later you'll have to eat your every word.

Because everyone has heard,

How you promised us paradise.

It would be so sweet.

It would be so nice,

If you kept your promises.

I can taste the poison of your lies

I can see it in your eyes,

That your smile is a disguise.

To cover the pained conscience,

For you are in fear of your own consequence.

When you talk crap you make it into a meal.

You serve fantasy up as if it's real.

I guess day dreams have a special market appeal.

TWO THIRTY IN THE MORNING.

It's two thirty in the morning.

All the street and house lights are off,

due to a blackout.

I'm taking my dog for a walk.

I watch the moon set in the west.

The glow is slight but a beautiful blood orange.

It becomes dark and the previously nonexistent stars,

dance across the sky.

In all their glory, like young lovers.

Having their five minutes of fame,

on the celestial dance floor.

I write poetry and contemplate life and it's meaning.

Listen to the crickets sing songs of love and freedom.

My dog growls at the proud, streetwise tabby,

casually walking down the road.

Now it's five thirty in the morning.

The sun slowly pushes through the twilight.

To give a red after glow to the sky,

then it rises higher.

To leave the sky blue again.

I walk home, have breakfast,

and get ready for work.

THE MOST ABSORBENT HANDKERCHIEF IN THE WORLD

I need the most absorbent handkerchief in the world.

Cause my heart has been broken,

by many a beautiful girl.

I need to cry out of a plane,

over drought stricken land.

I'll cry in the desert, to make it bloom.

To give nature a helping hand.

I'm going to give up on love and cry my life away.

I won't eat or sleep, just cry all night and day.

I will keep crying till,

the world is over come by a flood.

And every one drowns in tear sodden mud.

I could weep on top of a mountain,

and make waterfalls that could beat the Victoria Falls.

I could use my tears to wash off,

skyscraper's windows and outside walls.

I could use my tears to put out fires in the bush,

or in the city.

Or I could mix colours with my tears,

and paint a picture ever so sad, ever so pretty.

My heart has been broken so many times,

that it can't be broken anymore.

The scar tissue has made my heart,

stronger than it's ever been before.

But it still hurts and gives me pain.

So my eyes cry again and again.

All I do is cry,

my tears fall like rain from the sky.

I need the most absorbent handkerchief in the world.

Cause my heart has been broken,

by many a beautiful girl.

Show no mercy, take no prisoner.

Show no mercy, take no prisoner.

Take no prisoner, show no mercy.

In the end, no survivor will there be.

No future for the children, to see.

Tell me, why must we go to war?

Tell me, what are we fighting for?

Is it for love, is it for hate?

Is it for the freedom of the children of Kuwait?

Is it for justice, is it for the spoil?

Is it for the control of the oil?

Is it to please the makers of armament?

Is that why our sons die?

Is that why they are sent?

Is it to make our leaders look strong and tough?

Don't they see?

They've stuffed things up enough.

Show no mercy, take no prisoner.

Take no prisoner, show no mercy.

In the end, no survivor will there be.

No future for our children, to see.

Tell me, why must we go to war?

Tell me, what are we fighting for?

YOU MUST THINK I'M CRAZY.

You must think I'm crazy.

To think I'd give you up, baby.

You must think mad.

To give up the best things, I've ever had.

You must think I'm crazy.

To think I'd let you take back, all you ever gave me.

If you don't tell me, what you are leaving for.

Baby, you won't get beyond that door.

You're making a BIG mistake, this you'll regret.

You'll be back to me soon, I bet.

Don't you walk out on me.

We're meant for each other, don't you see.

Hey, don't worry if we fuss and fight.

If we didn't baby, something wouldn't be right.

The good and the bad, do come and go.

So, let's take it a little slow.

Sometimes we say things, we don't mean.

Sometimes we dwell on things that could have been.

Why not be happy with what we've got?

We might not be a perfect match.

But we have got over the worst patch.

You must think I'm cray-zy.

I'm cray-zy.

I'm cray-zy for you.

FIVE MINUTES FROM HELL.

I'm five minutes from hell.

I'm under your spell.

I wish time would go faster.

I hate waiting for disaster.

I know you'll say, no.

Your eyes tell me so.

You want to let me go.

I can feel the heat, from down below.

You'll say goodbye, maybe it's just as well.

The answer now please tell.

It won't help to think things over,

You've been thinking all night and day.

All you want, is to go away.

What will really hurt, after you are gone.

Is the question of, what I didn't do right?

What did I do wrong?

I guess I'll struggle on.

I guess I will have to be strong.

I'm five minutes from hell.

I'm under your spell.

You'll say goodbye, maybe it's just as well.

The answer now please tell.

I'm five minutes from hell.

naked truth

Baby, I don't want you living a lie.

If you don't love me, then say goodbye.

I don't want you staying, for my sake

If you go, I know I can handle the heart ache.

But if you love me, as I love you.

Baby just tell me, you love me true.

All I want is the naked truth.

I want to hear you shout it from the roof.

All I want is the naked truth.

Sometimes even those with the strongest faith,

Need a little proof.

I'm not asking a life for a life,

A tooth for a tooth.

Just the naked truth.

I'm not afraid to face reality.

Don't matter, how painful it may be.

I'm not afraid to lose you.

To keep you happy, anything I would do.

I'm not fearful of what you might say.

I've been expecting it anyway.

I can see that distant look in your eye.

If you're going to leave,

I guess, now is the best time for goodbye.

Just remember if you change your mind.

Back in my world, a place for you, you'll still find.

I DON'T NEED TO DREAM ANYMORE.

I don't need to dream anymore.

You haven't got something you want,

That's why you dream for.

But I've got all I need and want,

I've got no reason to dream at all.

I use to wake up thinking my unfulfilled dreams,

Were really a nightmare.

I use to think life was, so cruel and unfair.

But then you came in, from nowhere.

Then I had a reason to love, reason to care.

I don't need to dream anymore.

You fulfil my every dream, my every wish.

You're my favourite pastime, my favourite dish.

You're the reason, I have a smile on my face.

Where ever you are, that's my kind of place.

I feel as if, I'm in a heaven like space

I don't need to dream anymore.

Every day I wake with the reality of my dreams,

In my bed.

Hair long and blond, eyes of sapphire blue, lips red.

An image imbedded in my head.

Not a word spoken, but everything said.

I don't need to dream anymore.

Cause you're the one I've been waiting for.

I don't need to dream anymore.

YOU SET ME ON FIRE.

You burn me, you set me fire.

Can't you see the flames getting higher?

You turn on the passion.

You heat up my desire.

I'm amazed, how you set my heart ablaze.

How you turn up the heat.

You're like ginger hot and sweet.

You light up the night,

Like fireworks and lasers.

Like them you have many colours and phases.

You burn me like a blazing cane field.

And the sweetness of my love, is what you yield.

Once you've got what you want, you walk away.

Once you've said goodbye, you have nothing else to say.

But I'm burning from the inside-out.

You are the one I burn for, there's no doubt.

I DON'T LET IT BOTHER ME.

I don't let anything bother me.

I just let it pass.

I just let it be.

I don't let it bother me.

Don't let anything get me down.

I'm so high.

I'm so happy.

I feel like I'm ten feet off the ground.

Don't care or worry about much at all.

Don't care if the sun does shine or the rain does fall.

I don't mind if it rains for a hundred years.

I have many woes and fears.

But I still have a smile on my phace.

Cause I remember there is always a worse place.

Ofcourse somethings make me feel sad.

But I don't let them make me feel too bad.

Sure I get blue sometimes.

I get lower than the heel of my shoe.

But I never stay there.

I never stay angry.

Because I don't let it bother me.

BLUE JAY

Blue jay, I'm going away.

Don't be sad, that's all you ever seem to be.

Blue jay, Blue jay.

You always being sad, is driving me crazy.

You always being unhappy, is sending me mad.

I can't help you anymore.

Until you workout, what you are crying for.

Don't you cry.

Just spread your wings and fly.

I've opened up the cage door.

But you don't want freedom.

You don't want freedom at all.

You're always blue.

Doesn't matter what I say or do.

Why always think of the negative?

Why not see what the positive has to give?

Your kiss is sweet as sugar.

Your heart is soft as a feather.

(little child get yourself together)

Your emotions are like stormy weather.

Without warning you hit an even lower, low.

I'm afraid, I'm at the point of nowhere to go.

Everywhere I turn, I end up with you still crying.

I can't help but think, that you're not really trying.

Your best friend,

Is going to bring this friendship to it's end.

To save his sanity.

You're always melon collie.

You're like a weeping dollie,

But the only thing is, that you never stop.

I've got to leave, cause all you do is grieve.

Everyone calls you the child of grief.

I've got to get away, to get some relief.

I've done all I can.

It's up to you again, to get off your crying perch.

SO DAMN BAD.

Nothing but a bad dream.

Nothing but a bad day.

Everything is ending in such a bad way.

Don't know what I've done.

But I wish I knew what to do.

You're too good for me,

I'm too bad for you.

Everything is so damn bad.

If it gets any worst, I'll go damn mad.

Today is a day I wish, I never did start.

Everything is going bad.

Everything is falling apart.

Every hour is the eleventh hour.

Someone crushed my luck like an old dry flower.

Disaster is my middle name.

It is true, that all I bring is sorry and pain.

I'm a bad boy.

I'm bad news.

Play with me, you're sure to lose.

I have a reputation, for being no good.

So don't mess with me, I never would.

Cause I'll only make you sad.

I'm so damn bad.

I'm one mean dude, with one mean attitude.

One wicked child, with one sweet smile.

I might look alright,

But the cutest dog sometimes has the worst bite.

I.l.o.v.e.y.o.u.

I want to touch your heart.

I want to fulfil your dream.

I want to show you, the way it should have always been.

I want to make a smile, return to your pretty face.

So baby, come over to my place.

I want to make your broken heart and torn apart world,

Feel better.

Do I have to spell out every letter?

I.l.o.v.e.y.o.u.

Baby, don't you see I do?

My love is faithful and true.

You have someone who loves you.

Guess who?

I.l.o.v.e.y.o.u.

Yes I do love you.

Everything I do, is to get your attention.

But you're not open, to any suggestion.

How I wish, we could make a connection.

Baby, can't you see what's my intention?

You don't notice, doesn't matter what I do or say.

I thought what was on my mind, was clear as day.

I said it poetically, but it didn't work anyway.

I guess a clearer message, I better convey.

I.l.o.v.e.y.o.u.

I tried to show it but I'll have to say it too.

I've just got to get my message through.

I.l.o.v.e.y.o.u.

just thinking.

Sometimes I need to clam up like an oyster,

And keep the pearls of my secrets,

Deep below the surface of the ocean of emotions.

Now I need to close shop,

To stocktake my feelings, find out what's missing,

And what I need to put on a red light special.

As I sit outside under the moon and stars.

I lead my thoughts away from out in space,

To inner space.

The galaxies of words, reasons and comprehension,

Flash before me.

As I travel at the speed of light,

Through the universe of theologies,

And thought processes.

And later at night, I seal myself up in my sleeping bag.

Similar to a time capsule of tomorrow.

As I lay in this cotton/polyester cocoon.

I dream and ponder of the past, present and future.

As if they are one.

I guess they are the same thing,

For I keep making the same mistakes,

With little or no change.

I feel more comfortable with the pain of the familiar,

Than the pleasure of the unknown.

So like a dog chasing his tail.

I go around full circle, until I end up where I began..

Waiting life away.

I wait for a job then I wait to get paid.

I feel like?

Like a dog tied up in the hot sun,

Waiting for the shade.

I'm waiting my life away.

If we got paid a dollar, for each hour we did wait.

We would be millionaires before,

It's too late to spend it.

Waiting for the bus, waiting for the train.

Waiting for the time, when we all go insane,

Cause we're waiting our lives away.

Waiting for the darkness, waiting for the light.

Waiting for the afternoon to become night.

Then I'm waiting for the early morning to become midday.

Waiting for my life to fall back together.

I wait for the news, I wait for the weather.

Wait for rain, wait for the sunshine.

Waiting for this sad world, to become happy,

And start having a good time.

Waiting on the front porch for the morning paper,

To be delivered.

Waiting on tables at the local cafe.

Waiting on the results of the D.N.A test,

Done by my friendly G.P.

Waiting on the corner of Dead End

And Nowhere Worth Wild Streets,

To be picked up by some old school friends.

To go to the school reunion from hell.

I wait to hear, what you have to say.

I'm waiting my life away.

Now I see this waiting, is just a waste of time.

I've been waiting for something, I don't need or want.

No longer am I waiting in line.

I used to be patient but I aren't any longer.

My will to wait is getting ever weaker,

While my want to do something,

Is getting ever stronger.

I can't sit down and wait for everything to come to me.

I've got make things happen.

No longer am I waiting my life away.

NUMB

I'm feelingless, I don't feel anything for anyone.

I am numb.

Have I become so desensitised,

That no more tears fall from my eyes?

Have I lived so many years,

That I no longer have any fears?

I am now part of the heartless fashion.

No love, no kindness, no compassion.

I have forgotten the child,

How I once laughed and smiled.

Raped like a virgin.

My emotions have been defiled.

I never again, will feel sorrow, misery and pain.

I don't feel at peace.

I feel empty like an unused diary.

Nothing worth mentioning, nothing worth thinking about,

Nothing worth feeling.

For so many times I've been deceived,

Now I have left the hope I once, believed.

I have become such a nothingness bloke,

That I can't give or take a joke.

No longer will I have my share,

Of happiness, melancholy and despair.

I'm emotionless.

I don't have a single emotion in body,

Not even one.

I am numb.

The blanket of blankness, covers me like a net.

But I'm not upset.

I wait still, calm.

As a domestic animal, waits at the slaughter house.

For the execution of it's unchangeable destiny.

I'm stuck here in this void.

Much like a piece of discarded chewing gum,

Under a park bench.

I know it is to late to have feelings of anxiety,

Frustration, bitterness or hate.

I am numb.

Confusion.

Confusion, illusion.

Don't know what to believe.

What lies did you conceive?

Don't know what to feel.

Is what you just said, for real?

Is what you just said true?

I don't know if I should trust you.

Confusion.

I'm confused, don't know what to do or say.

Should I say no and leave?

Should I say yes and stay?

Should I play with the fire,

Or should I put it out?

How can I really know what you're on about?

Some say it's wrong.

Some say it's right.

Should I just give in,

Or should I put up a fight.

Advice and information.

Coming from all around.

But right at the moment,

It's a mix of useless noise and sound.

Confusion.

A war within my brain.

A fight with my soul.

A mist over my mind.

The more I look for the answer,

The less I seem to find.

Confusion.

Throw Away

Throw away smile.

Throw away tears.

Throw away days.

Throw away years.

We all live in a throw away society.

Everything is made in a plastic variety.

And when we grow old, they'll throw away you and me.

Nothing is made to last.

Everything is thrown away, once time does pass.

A new fridge, a new stove, a new car.

But the old things last longer by far.

Get the new, throw out the old.

Resources used up.

Future is sold.

To keep the rich, rich,

The poor, poor.

They sell us things we don't need at all.

Give us the o.k to be selfish and cruel.

Disregard the wise, obey the fool.

Open a can of worms,

No one can eat.

Our greed will lead to our own defeat.

Everything is grey,

Nothing is black or white.

You make the good, bad.

You make the wrong, right.

YOU DON'T LOVE ME ANYWAY.

You don't love me anyway.

So why should I play?

Wasted kisses and a broken heart,

Is the price I pay.

You never listen to what I say.

My trust and love, you did betray.

You don't love me anyway.

You want me for another niche on your gun.

You treat me like something, instead of someone.

You do your best, to make me feel at my worst.

Your hold is obsessive, your kiss is cursed.

You say you're afraid of losing me.

But what you're really doing, is just using me.

You say you love me but that's a lie.

You really can't wait, till I pass on by.

Now that I see the fish from the school.

I realise I've been such a fool.

It's foolish that I didn't see it before.

But it's clear to see, you didn't love me at all.

You love others, so why can't I?

Now you may pretend to cry.

But I'll still go, so kiss me goodbye.

I've just got to go my own way.

I've been down many roads,

But I must go my own direction.

There's many ways to go,

But I must make my own selection.

I've just got...

I've just got to go my own way.

Until now I've been following blindly,

But now I see, there must be, a better place for me.

I always did what I was told,

But now I'm getting too old.

To let a chance go by, can't let a chance go by.

I got to take every chance I get.

Go places, do things I haven't done yet.

Like a bird, out of reach and beyond sight.

Time does fly. How time does fly.

You are welcome to come along.

But if you leave, you've done nothing wrong.

Cause everyone has the right to take their own track.

And if you get lonely,

If you need a friend come on back.

You've just got....

You've just got to go your own way.

Smoke stack transporters,

Oil companies' huge profits.

Stops alternatives being used.

Stark lonely deserts,

Once lush green rain forest.

Now dry parched sand dunes.

I walked seven hundred miles, to return here.

Only to hear the weeping of the forest,

Instead of the laughter of children.

And I feel the lonely emptiness of the wilderness.

Instead of the warmth of my home town.

The flying ace crashed, just minutes after the black ace,

from the pack of cards, in his top pocket, fell out.

The white roses turned light pink then dark red,

as grandma killed the noisy rooster.

It was not right that the employer only chose,

The applicants who could read and write.

When they were only picking fruit.

The reward is worth the effort.

The treasure is worth the search.

The gain is worth the pain.

And you are worth everything I have.

Be my safe guard.

Sometimes life is so hard.

So baby be my safe guard.

When I'm lonely come and hold me.

Protect me from all harms.

I feel so safe in your arms.

When I feel scared you give me reassurance.

When I'm ready to give up you, give me endurance.

When troubles rob me of life's joy.

You're the one I will employ.

To help me regain my smile.

To feel there's still things in life,

Worth our while.

When life gets too hard.

Please be my safe guard.

Be my safe guard.

SPIN LIFE'S WHEEL.

I've got to fight the pain, spin life's wheel.

Take a chance, see what love has to deal.

I hope this time it is for real.

I know, I've got to follow the way, I feel.

All I need is a friend.

To help me carry on till the end.

What I must do is, fight the pain and carry on.

Fight the fears of my heart and be strong.

Don't let sorry take control.

Just make carrying on my main goal.

Every one has heart break and tears.

Every one has nightmares and fears.

Every one has to fight the pain, spin life's wheel.

Take a chance and see what love has to deal.

Hope this time it's for real.

They've got to follow the way they feel.

I see you in the corner, having a good cry.

Because the one you love has said goodbye.

But just remember life still continues,

And you can't always live in the blues.

You've got to fight the pain, spin life's wheel.

Take a chance and see what love has to deal.

You've got to follow the way you feel.

Go on follow the way you feel.

smash,crash,bang.

Smash, crash, bang goes my heart.

Cause you broke it again.

Smash, crash, bang.

My world falls apart.

I'll never be the same.

My trust smashed, destroyed for ever.

You said you'd leave me never.

Our love was sure to be crashed.

From the first time our personalities clashed.

Bang goes my dream world.

When you said you no longer wanted to be my girl.

Everything's gone bang and bust.

From someone I thought I could trust.

It just goes to show,

Nobody you can really know.

No one you can rely on.

Better twist my neck,

Next time I need a shoulder to cry on.

What a pity, what a shame.

If I only had known, that love to you is just a game.

So many men, you have demolitioned.

Each one needing to be reconditioned.

To restore their faith in womankind.

To realise a better woman than you, they can find.

I just hope you realise, that you've destroyed men's lives.

And awakened jealousy in so many wives.

DESTINY

I'm chasing destiny. Can you tell me where is she? I once met this girl who said her name was Destiny. We talked about politics and poetry, for about three hours. She bought me dinner, I bought her chocolates and flowers. And when I asked for her number. She said we were destined to meet again. But the thing is, it's been more than two years since I first met her. At the railway station that night in the pouring rain. We both just missed the train, going to central. We both suggested going to the local cafe, while we waited for the next train going to town. Some two and half hours later. We laught, we talked. We just watched the rain run down, the shop front windows. Running down hill like we ourselves as we

run in this rat race. I also watched the look of amusement build on Destiny's face. Then I asked if she was still going into the city. She said no and asked if she could stay at my place for the night. The implication hit me, like a herd of pachyderms. We made love, listened to the radio and drank champagne. "Shoop" and "Do you love me" will never sound quite the same. She was gone in the morning. All that was left to show she was there, was a thank you note. Two soft boiled eggs, some recently cooked bacon rations. And on the pillow a few strands of her hair. It was not my first time, but it was the first and last time I gave in so eazily to my fantasies and passions. She gave me a ring with an inscription that reads, "I'm your destiny." I have worn it ever since. And ever since I've been searching everywhere, I could possibly find her. In this few places to hide sort of town."She likely left this nothing holding me here sort of place." You might say. You might think she's pack her bags and when away. But I've seen her, now and then at one or the other the major grocery store. She would give me a wink and then disappear once more. Behind the shelves of baked goods. Now I know that a man can not live on bread alone. Something tells me that she is still here. I've grown tired of her, hide and seek. I've become worn out from chasing her through every bakery. Chasing Destiny, trying to catch her before she disappears for good this time. Maybe it should really heavily rain. We never get together when the weather is fine. I'm chasing Destiny. Can you tell me where is she? I don't know anything much worth knowing, but I know she is tied up with my destiny somehow. I think her of every waking hour and dream of her nearly every sleeping one. Were we destined to be together? Or was I destined to be haunted by her, till I become a ghost of the man, I used to be? How can someone, be so beautiful, yet be so cruel? Or does she think she is doing me a favour, by not getting involved? We are already involved. Involved in a war of wills. One waiting for the other to crack like a front windscreen, hit by a lone stone. Thrown up by a passing speeding F.J., on a outback road. Praying in one's heart that the other doesn't shatter into five hundred and one pieces. That not even Windscreen O'brian and all his men could put back together. I'm bound by fate to search for, till I find, Destiny. Where ever she might be.

MY CREATIVITY.

No one understands me and my creativity.

I could paint the town red.

But nobody would have heard a word I said.

I could turn the sky black,

But no one would understand that.

I might cut myself, then paint with my blood and tears.

But it would be misunderstood for many years.

I would sing and dance in the rain.

But you would only think I'm insane.

I could chain myself to a lonely tree.

But you would only cut it down and set me free.

No one understands me and my creativity.

Misinterpreted I will always be.

Me and my creativity.

You say I raise evils from the deep.

They have always been there,

But you hide in your sleep.

Behind your fortress wall,

You don't hear the beast call.

You say I'm wasting my talents and time.

But don't say a thing, these things are mine.

And I'll use them the way I like.

Whether behind a canvas or a mike.

I'm brave enough to try to express.

The feelings you say we should suppress.

If you only listen to the word.

Then my message would be heard.

If only you, did not take everything at face value.

For we all have so much to say, give and do.

To the fire there's no flame, if we don't add passion again.

The forest is a desert without rain.

Does anyone feel my pain?

No one knows from where or how,

I get my inspiration and power.

Nobody knows why,

Why I laugh or why I cry.

How I wish I could open your eyes.

And show you the faces in the skies.

I tell you truth, not lies.

I can't change your mind, whether I paint on canvas or flesh.

Cause your ideas are too enmeshed.

Like the wind, earth and the sea.

No one understands me.

EXTRACT FROM "UNIVERSEI POETRY FOR EVERYONE."

A BOOK OF POETRY WRITTEN BY anthony james day.

