
Upon A Tide of Wintry Morn

Ashen Twilight Series

Rae Lori

Published by RavenFire Books, 2015.

# Table of Contents

Title Page

Upon A Tide of Wintry Morn (Ashen Twilight Series)

About the Story

Upon a Tide of Wintry Morn

Praise for A Kiss of Ashen Twilight, Book 1 in the Ashen Twilight Series

Within the Shadows of Mortals

Continue the Ashen Twilight Series

Other books by Rae Lori within the series:

About the Author

# About the Story

A greater threat looms over the three houses as they move west for a better life. Shades of the past return as Ariya senses a connection between Alexandru Drago and his prince, Vlad Tepes III aka Vlad Dracul, as she relives their conspiracy to take the throne of Wallachia using a secret army. At the same time, Jace relives his father's burial in the Highlands of Scotland and muses over living with Ariya in the Aziza fairy realm.

Thank you so much for downloading Upon a Tide of Wintry Morn!

For book giveaways, news, announcements and special release content, click below to sign-up for Rae's newsletter!

<http://www.raelori.com/subscribe/>

Learn more about Rae's books and the world of the Ashen Twilight Houses online!

http://raelori.com/books

# Upon a Tide of Wintry Morn

Ariya felt the world slip away like a dusty haze. The droning of the car engine and the low whoosh of the passing cars along the freeway offered an unconventional lullaby rather foreign to her ears. The last image she remembered was Jace's strong profile as he focused on the road ahead, after taking over the driving from Gael. His best friend had decided to ride with one of his female companions and wanted to give them some privacy during the drive. She had to remember to thank him again for thinking of them.

Yellow shadows poured around his visage, wrapping him in a sheet of shadow, outlining his sharp nose, soft lips and strong chin. His azure eyes stared into the distance despite the focus on the drive. His large yet soft masculine hands gripped the steering wheel.

She fell asleep with a smile on her face, thinking of him. The world suddenly slipped away and another time, another world replacing it...

––––––––

Visegrád, a town landlocked in the Carpathian Basin of Central Europe - 1462

The castle structure stretched across the lands. The normally tranquil green blades of grass were offset by the fading brown stones against the natural greens and blues of the town. This morning the earth based shades were covered under a sheet of snow that had fallen not long ago

Alexandru Drago saw the magnificent structure upon diving down toward entrance way. The bright white light flashed in front of his face with streams of blood he already knew had been spilt. Vladislav Tepes III, The Son of the Dragon, had been taken by force down into the large castle structure. The subjugation of his enemies had earned him the name of The Impaler. He was third in the line of his forefathers and thus had carried the family name of Draculea (or Dracula). Both titles he wore proudly like a well worn suit of armor.

Now the prince lay in the home of King Matthias Corvinus. The halls within the Visegrád palace lay before Alexandru as he looked ahead. The massive structure was still lined with guards donning their impressive armor. The large sabers at their side sheathed in large scabbards of gilded metal would have sent any other man into a heightened state of panic. Alexandru himself knew how to disperse of them with a wave of his hand. It was better to remain under their watchful eyes...for now. Soon they would be able to emerge as the true leaders. With Vlad's "changing" soon at the hand of his conquering, there would not be long to wait.

Right away he made use of his keen senses, seeing the guards near and smelling the familiar scent of Vlad. It was a thick smell of power laced with sweat and gruel. The scent of blood wrapped around him like a layer, but this wasn't human blood. It was animals. The lines of the hard stone cell did it's best to block the familiar scent unique only to the prince. A round of guards had gathered around the stone rimmed well of the inner castle courtyard of the lower castle. The banks of the beautiful blue Danube River streamed within the wall, connecting to the tower to fuel the palace with its water supply. A large watchtower offered a view over the muted azure waters to any intruders who may seek the soil of ád on their desperate travels.

The prince was not too far now.

Alexandru felt his body threaten to change as he continued ahead. Clanking metal, a warm tunic and soft robes draped around his large form as he walked. The bitter cold bit through his folds. If he had to shift, a thick hide would do well. Patience.

Once he reached his destination. He would do well to bide his time.

The bulky walls offered solace to him as he dodged the guards at the walkway up to the citadel. He was nearly surprised at the sparse amount of guards on the way to the cell.

Alexandru peered up at the massive tall tower peeking out from deep green forestry peeking out from large flakes of snow. He drew closer, careful not to be seen by the surrounding guards' watchful eyes. From here he could see the young boyish visage of one of the two guards. The youthful gaze was accentuated by dim grey eyes staring ahead as if in a trance. Not only did Alexandru hold the power of age over this one, he could already tell the mental capacity was limiting as well. This was going to be easy.

The dispatch took a few seconds. He got rid of the larger of the two with a crush of the neck, tossing him to the side. The younger raised his sword in defense, freezing once he met Alexandru's hardened gaze. The dazed look now was replaced by a true trance once the older Romanian had hold over him.

"The prince of Wallachia is being held within this structure, is he not?" Alexandru asked with a slight lift of his lips.

The young guard lowered his sword with a nod. "He is."

Alexandru stepped forward, fully aware of his height over the young guard. "You are under strict orders to take me to him. A special assignment, we shall say, that is blessed by our fair King Matthias."

The guard led him up the citadel, carefully explaining his situation to each guard on their way. Alexandru would keep his gift to himself, making sure to keep his face blank as he nodded and wandered through. The smell of blood, thick crimson and bitter copper, filled his lungs with the dank, rusty aged stone structure. The moment he wandered upon the cell housing his prince, he stopped. The cold wintry morning was visible under the rise of the new day outside Vlad's window. The brown wooded slopes, deeply chiseled grayish russet valleys overlooking the Danube River.

The windowsill, carving the view like the frame of a painting, sat decorated with the dead carcasses of spiders, roaches, and mice. Their bodies propped up like small towers on thick, splintered wood. Alexandru followed the dark shadows moving against the stone ground.

"Printul meu." Alexandru's deep voice elicited a slight movement. The hunched over figure turned to look over his shoulder, leaving behind a twitching mouse against another splinter.

The elongated features of a sharp nose, wide penetrating eyes and a thin mouth beneath a thick mustache still held a semblance of the royal curtain. The months that passed had done well to wear on him but still he held the strong determined gaze of a ruler set to reclaim his kingdom. Alexandru was proud as he looked upon him.

"My refuge has turned into a sort of asylum," Vlad said peering around him as he stretched out his hands. "Radu has overtaken my mind as well my home."

Alexandru lowered his head slightly at the name of his prince's half brother. Radu the handsome had used his army to reclaim Wallachia shortly after their leave. Despite the welcoming of the peasants in the area, Matthias was not so eager to house and align with a dethroned prince.

"The walls of Poenari still stand," Alexandru said softly. "But your wife..." He thought back to the frail body that fell from the open window down toward the Arges River and lowered his head. "She does not live."

Vlad's thin form beneath his tunic stiffened before he fell into a pace. "And the creatures?"

Alexandru dismissed the sly remark with a smile. "Death. Few escaped with reinforcements, but there were not many."

"They still roam the countryside in numbers. You know the vast number of them that walk this Earth, do you not?"

The shorter Romanian of the two nodded. "I do. The gift that was bestowed upon me is like no other. There are certain strains of us with various abilities that will do well to your liking."

Vlad turned and approached the gated irons standing between the two. His thin, spindly fingers wrapped around them despite the nearly frozen bars. His deep eyes bore into Alexandru as he leaned forward. "You will continue forward."

"My prince?"

"You will continue what I have started and gather them. My immortality will be enough to regain my throne for eternity. An army of my own immortal creatures to do my bidding, to make me one of them."

"A creature of the undead that walks the night? Or one that haunts the moon in its beastly form? Or..." Alexandru lifted his chin slightly. Or someone like him.

"Bring me my army that I may rise again."

"My liege, we bring you the throne. An army under my orders will easily overtake Radu and his Ottomans. If you so choose, I may raise my army—"

Vlad waved his hand with a huff and turned away, silencing him. "I will be the one to take back my throne from my brother's deceitful acquisitions once I leave these captive bars. You shall form your army under a leader of your choosing. Choose a man you trust with your life and in Wallachia you will await my return."

Alexandru wasn't sure about the prince's wishes. He knew he could bring his own army of immortals and take down Radu's men as swiftly as he saw the reinforcements break through the Poenari walls. But as he looked at his ruler's determined gaze, he had to trust him.

"An army I will gather to away your return." With a bow, he excused himself with the promise.

****

A loud horn awoke her once again. Ariya sat up in her seat trying to focus on her surroundings and separate imagination from reality. She turned to Jace who looked at her with a sly smile on his handsome face.

"Sleeping pretty heavily there, huh?" he said reaching over to pull him close to her. "Must have been pretty exciting."

She settled into the concave of his arm. Normally his cold skin would have bothered her but the soft, cotton fabric of his shirt offered a comfort along with the unique feel of him. She slipped her hand up to his chest and imagined, for just a moment, the sound of his heartbeat beneath the icy, thick skin. A sound or feeling that would say he was alive. "Why do you say that?"

"You were saying Vlad."

Another blaring car horn broke into the atmosphere from the opposite highway. The loud siren craned to a high pitch before dying to a strained sound within the distance. What exactly was she dreaming? And why did it feel like someone's memories?

"Jace?"

"Mmm hmm."

"Do you know Alexandru Drago?"

His body stiffened and his grip on the steering wheel tightened as he shifted in his seat. "Where did you hear that name?" he asked, clearing his strained voice.

Ariya slowly sat up and looked at him. "He was in the dream with Vladislav Tepes III. I think it was him whose eyes I was seeing through."

"What did you see?"

She shrugged, sitting back in her seat and staring at the line of cars ahead. "The past. He was working with Vlad to somehow bring him an army against his brother. I remember reading about that. A political push and pull between Vlad, his brother and Matthius Corvinus. But why am I dreaming about it now?" She sighed. A strange pressure grew in her forehead and she closed her eyes.

"Hey, relax Ariya," Jace said, reaching over to her.

The pain began to subside when she felt his grip on her back, massaging the tension growing within her body.

"Lower."

She leaned back into his massage and felt the pressure drop to her lower back.

"Mmm, lower."

A soft chuckle fell from Jace's lips. Despite the pain slowly lessening, she felt a tingle of pleasure spread through her body from the relaxing massage.

"Lower?" This time Jace had said it, and from the delightfully hopeful sound of his voice, she was sure he was smiling.

Before she could answer, his hand dipped below to her skirt clad hip and pulled her closer. She gave in, leaning in toward his open free neck and placed a soft kiss on it.

"You trying to make me forget my dream, Archane?" she asked softly.

His lips rose in a smile, making him seem more handsome. "Is it working?"

Ariya chuckled softly, brushing his shoulder length wavy brown hair away from his neck to give him another kiss. She thought about what it would be like to bite someone there. To drink their essence and taste their blood on a daily basis.

"You don't have to think about it, dear," Jace said taking her hand and kissing it softly. "You've already done it, remember?"

She sighed, falling back into her seat again. "I remember." It had been the first time they shared each other. Jace had taken too much in the height of the excitement and drove her over the edge. He thought she had died but thankfully he gave her his blood to revive her just in time. It had been the sweetest taste she ever had experienced and it had sealed Jace to her forever. At the same time, it had made her slightly uncomfortable. They didn't know what effects it would have on her, but they knew to keep watch in the mean time. Would her people know what she had done? Would they sense something different about her when she returned?

"Hey." Jace wrapped his fingers within hers and looked at her, swinging a look at the road ahead from time to time. "Don't worry yourself, Ariya. Everything's fine. So far you're all right. Once we settle in Los Angeles we'll get everything sorted out with the Houses. Perhaps we can have a quick checkup on you there. Maybe Daoine can sense something strange before it happens."

Ariya leaned on the head of the back of her seat. She brushed a dark cinnamon curl away from her face and smiled at Jace through the darkness. "You gathered all of that from my single thought and you didn't sense any part of my dream?"

"I was thinking about something else. Thought I'd give you your privacy." He peered at her again and gently tapped her nose before grinning. "How much fun would it be if we climbed into each other's thoughts all the time?"

"Mmm. How much fun indeed." She gripped his free hand and gently ran her fingers along his pale skin, contrasting with her smooth dark chestnut complexion. "Alexandru Drago," she said softly.

"Hasn't been seen for centuries. I figured he was dead after he tried to wipe us out."

"He's an immortal?"

Jace nodded. "Not really sure what type. He seemed to have the traits of all three houses. Some think he may be like Daoine. Who's a mystery within himself."

"Why would he try to take the blood of his own brethren? At the mercy of a mortal, a bloodthirsty ruler, like Dracul no less?"

Jace shrugged and reached over to scratch with his free hand to scratch his shoulder. "Don't know. Perhaps the bond of man and country is strong or he had another agenda. We never crossed paths after my father's death in Wallachia."

"What did you do?"

"We went back to Scotland to bury him." Jace's voice fell softer and a sullen smile crept upon his face. "He would've wanted it that way. Return to the land of his country to remain forever."

Ariya snuggled up to Jace again, listening to the sound of his voice like a distant memory. His arm gripped her as he spoke and she closed her eyes to imagine the world that was...

––––––––

Highlands, Scotland – 1462

When lately we parted, how sad the farewell,

Our words were but few, but our thoughts who can tell?

When lost to my vision, afar on the brine,

I drank thee success in the goblet of wine.

Jace stared at the mound of brown dirt against the seat of green that held his father beneath the lands. His Uncle Julian's voice stretched across the land in the Scots Gaelic tongue singing a song he had heard from funerals growing up. The language swelled his heart which still stung. A part of him died as he held his father's lifeless form in his arms. The once bright eyes that stared at him as he was taught how to tame the lands, to fight, to love, and to be a man had now dimmed to ruin. They could die. It had hit him then. The blood flow of life that beat within his veins could perish just like mortals.

His calloused fingers gripped the warm hilt of his sword against a sweaty palm.

The part of the song ended with the captured lyrics still floating within the air. He lifted his head slightly to watch his uncle reach out and shake the salt and soil onto the large mound. Before placing Jace's father Gerard beneath the pile of burial rocks, Jace had watched him do the same upon his brother's chest. The last visage he saw of his father was that of peace as the soil would retake him once again while the salt, a representation of his soul, would remain forever.

In his last rest, Jace's father wore the same green shaded quilted armor garments that matched him and his uncle's. Thick padded quilts of cotton served as armor as a front to whatever mortals crossed their way. If their speedy defenses would fail, the thickness of the material would surely block any sword cuts.

A long brown leather tunic-like coat reached below the knees and quilted vertically, draped over an overcoat of mail armor. Peace fell upon the handsome face lined with a dark shadow of a beard. Dark brown wavy hair fell over the large broad pair of shoulders. Large calloused hands crossed over his chest holding the broadsword his father, Jace's grandfather Cailean Archane, had made for Gerard. The shiny metal was broad near the hilt, tapering into a long design that stretched the length of his body toward a pointed end. The cross-section of the blade offered an indentation like Jace's own Gaelic inscription on his blade: Na sir's na seachainn an cath. Neither Seek Nor Shun the Fight. It was a motto his father had taken to his death.

Jace finally arched his chin upward to where his uncle stood next to Daoine. Their faces were still, grim with the events of the day. The trek had been longer this time as Jace wished to cross the lands by foot rather than make use of Daoine's large eagle-like form. He used the sword to pull himself to standing. With a brush of his hand to wipe the green grass clinging to his trews he stepped forward and offered a hand to help place his father in his final resting home.

"Alas, death finally does claim us," Jace said softly.

"Yes, Jacinus," Daoine said moving toward him. "The hands of war can still take lives no matter if by mortal or one of our own."

"Gerard shouldn't ha' to die like that," Julian said. He peered ahead at the vast mounds of green. "We lost the battle and we lost my only brathair!"

Daoine held his hand up. "Peace, Julian. I did not forsee this occurrence."

"No, you didn't. You can shift your bones, change into a great animal of your choosing, but you canna stop a massacre. What is the purpose of making us like this? A life of immortality...what reason if ye canna stop death from climbing up and seizing your life?"

Jace peered up at Daoine, awaiting the answer for his own curiosity.

"The hands of death still stalk us, watching from the dark corners," Daoine's dark eyes focused on Julian as he approached him. The long dark blue robes that seemed to float around his body brushed against the green grass. "But it does not wear the cloak of age any longer. It kills...more discriminately now. It's up to us figure out how to live under its watchful eyes. That is the point of all this, Julian. That is why they need a leader. There are more like you out there. Some like myself but not of the same blood and some others like the wolves that stalk the night. They will need a home, a sanctuary to come to when the wars continue to wipe them out."

"And thus is our purpose," Jace said causing both men to turn his way. He turned away from his father's grave and looked up at them. "Is that not correct, Daoine? The reason you have brought us together?"

"Yes. It was my goal."

Jace felt his jaw tightened as he sighed, trying to compose himself. His mother was lost to him years ago in the plague and now his father had followed. What life would it be if he lost his Uncle now and the new ally they had both trusted to make them into the creatures they were now? Life was frivolous and the fear and doubt he had about living it slowly slipped away. Now he would live life as it should be and while he remained within this immortal shell, he would make others answer to him.

"Protection would be scarce now that we are hunted creatures," Jace said aloud. He sheathed his sword with ease and folded his arms, standing tall. "I agree with Daoine, Uncle. Tis better to join than let our numbers fall in its division."

Julian turned to Daoine who merely nodded, closing his eyes to enhance his agreement. After sheathing his own sword he moved between them to head back to Gerard's gravesite. He kneeled, placing his hand on the mound and bowing his head once more.

****

"Julian agreed then that it would be better to stay together," Jace said as he continued to drive. "He took his rapier out and we each took turns breaking the skin of our open palms to seal our oath with life's blood. And from that day forward the House of Blood began under the Archane line."

"And here we are." Ariya looked ahead, thinking about what brought them here to this point. The moment she met Jace, she couldn't believe he was a Nightwalker. Too much like the Asiman blood drinkers at home in her lands in the Aziza realm, she deemed him a threat despite saving her from the Shifter Rens.

Strangely enough, he didn't believe she was who she was. A Faerie from another realm. He knew stories of her kind from his homeland in Scotland but her and her people were a far cry from the mischievous Fae herself, as she would come to learn from his stories. After dodging an elemental under the guise of Liam Blakedon, a former guard in the Archane house a long time ago, she had faced her own death twice and was brought back by Jace both times.

And yet until then, she hadn't felt love before in its truest form. She read about it, saw it as her sisters were paired off with their potential husbands and dreaded the time when she was going to have to face the same. But it hadn't been until now that she actually felt a romantic love for a man. Jace had been her protector since she arrived. Sure, there was that one time when he cast her out, refusing to believe that a Faerie had been in his very living room.

"Hey you can't—"

Ariya quickly reached up and covered his mouth. "I understand why you did it, but don't think I won't make you pay later." With her other hand, she poked him in the side.

"So then. About this love thing."

She squeezed his arm. "Yes?"

"I never grasped the idea of a feeling wrapped up in one word. It's been tinkered with, abused, used, overused and outdated itself more times than I can focus on at the moment. But the feeling...the feeling itself has never been something to describe. What I will say is that...every time you leave my side, I feel like a part of me has somehow died. And when you're near I can't think of a better place to be. One moment I feel like holding you and the next I want to make love to you, feel you beneath me until we're both exhausted from the act."

Ariya chuckled, poking his side again. "Jace!"

"I mean it. You're apart of me now Ariya. And I'm apart of you. I can sense when something's wrong and when you're in danger. Your blood is always calling out to me."

"Mmm, I bet you've said that before to many female acquaintances," Ariya mused.

He turned to her, not a hint of a smile or amusement on his face. "Partly. But the things I've told you about me and the things you know are only known by you. My feelings are true, Ariya. Julian knows this and I want you to know it after everything we've been through."

Ariya reached up on impulse and pulled his face to her. She placed a hard passionate kiss on his lips causing him to steer the vehicle off the road.

"Ariya!"

"Oh!" Remembering where they were, she slid back down into her seat and watched Jace swerve the car back into his lane, despite the many angry horns that blew off from the surrounding cars. "Sorry." She smiled despite feeling her face grow hot.

Jace laughed and leaned back before reaching to pull her close. "Believe me, I would have done the same if I weren't driving. It's a good thing we are because you'd be in trouble about now."

Ariya giggled thinking about his words. "And what sort of trouble could we get in if we stopped between here and California?"

Jace's smile dropped for a moment into seriousness. He turned to her, the sly smile returning as an idea hit him. "Wait a minute. I'll do you one better."

He checked his rearview mirror before flipping his hazard lights on and pulling into the lane next to him. With a quick look over his shoulder, he grinned and waited a moment for the House caravan to catch up behind him. Once it was in tow, he moved to the side of the road.

Ariya remembered Gael Almadovar picking them up earlier that evening. With the Ashen Twilight House's outing, all of the Patriarchs felt it was best to move everyone West for better safety. Before leaving, they packed everything in the vehicle and started out with Gael driving, until the Shifter joined a pretty lady friend of his. Finally Ariya and Jace had a chance to spend some private time together for the duration of the trip.

Now Jace led the line of cars to the side of the road. Hopefully Jace had an explanation ready for the curious gazes that'd be awaiting them.

She heard and felt Jace take a deep breath as he stretched his arms forward on the steering wheel. She knew why he was nervous. He had to face his Uncle Julian. Although the Nightwalker was indeed his uncle, perhaps more so he was his Patriarch and any major decisions would have to go through him. She couldn't decipher what exactly Jace was thinking due to his clouded mind toward her, but whatever it was she knew it was, to use a contemporary mortal expression, heavy.

Ariya suppressed the questions cropping up in her mind. Instead she watched Jace pull to the side of the dark road. Absent of the calming light of the highway. The engine died beneath them and Jace pushed the door open with one shove. He turned around and peered at her, grinning. "Come on," he said with a nod of his head.

Her heart raced as she opened the side car door and stared into the black night. Already she heard the chorus of car doors opening and closing behind them.

Julian's handsome broad features were stern. A vertical crease formed in his forehead and as his large frame grew in size as he drew closer, he became more imposing. "Jace, what is going on? We'll lose too much time if we stop at every turn."

"We aren't going back with you," Jace said, peering up at his Uncle.

All eyes fell on Jace, especially Ariya's.

"What?" Julian cocked his head to the side as if he didn't hear right.

Jace held his ground, straightening his back to declare his stance was set. "Ariya and I will be taking a detour before heading to L.A. I'd like to see her world. She's already seen ours and I think it's time for a little change." He turned to her. "If that's alright with you."

Ariya quickly closed her mouth and slowly licked her lips once she realized all the eyes focused on her. If Rich, Jace's best friend— and also a newly married Lycan— was here, she was sure he would be grinning and silently nodding for her to go for it. If Joanna wasn't nudging her in the side first. She peered up at Jace's other best friend, Gael whose large arms were folded as he idly leaned against the car. His dark chocolate eyes peered at her and even through the darkness of the night she could tell he was nodding.

"Ah...yes." she finally said. "That would be fine."

Her heart skipped a beat once she felt Jace's arms around her. A quick thought flashed in her mind and she made sure to cloak it with more pleasant thoughts of happiness. Still she wondered how her people would welcome him. If she thought he was an Asiman, how would they accept him knowing he shared the same traits as those demonic creatures? Even more, how would she get him across the realm into the brightness of the day when his skin shunned it? To top it off, after drinking Jace's blood, there was still a chance that she had become part Nightwalker herself.

She focused on the hard gaze Juliana aimed at his nephew. The tense flex of his jaw reminded her of Jace's same quirk whenever he struggled to keep calm. She didn't dare try to read his thoughts. The stoic tinge of emotions running across his hard expression was more than enough evidence in what he was thinking. She half expected him to go off on a rant. Instead, he nodded and turned away from them.

"You'll return soon, I trust," he said over his shoulder.

A few months in the Aziza realm equaled a few weeks in the mortal realm. She had a feeling Julian didn't know this, but still he didn't stand around to ask any questions.

Gael pushed off the side of Julian's car and walked to them.

"I guess I'm taking back my car," he said with a grin. A slight hint of his Spanish accent trickled into his words before he chuckled. He held out his dark hand and waited for Jace to place his keys in his open palm. Gael turned to Ariya and gave a slight bow. "I trust you'll take care of our Nightwalker Regent in the mean time."

He headed for the car and the chorus of engines started up again.

Jace wrapped his arm around Ariya and pulled her off to the side to dodge the cars heading back toward the highway. The dark blotches of red lights soon disappeared in the blackness around them.

Then they were alone in the silence.

Ariya peered up at Jace, feeling a strange warmth around them despite his cold skin. She looked up, straining to see the deep blue shade of his eyes focused on her.

"You're not angry?"

She shook her head, smiling. "I was looking for a chance to take you home with me."

"No time like the present, hmm?"

Before she could respond, he claimed her lips with his own in a soft kiss. She melted against the hard lines of his chest and the strength of his body embracing hers. Her hands caressed his shirt and trousers as he brushed his tongue against her lips, coaxing them open.

The light intensified around them as if their heated tension fueled the source of it. Jace deepened the kiss and she felt him, wanting and desiring her as he clutched her body to him.

She closed her eyes and held on, giving into the desiring heat surrounding them.

# Praise for A Kiss of Ashen Twilight, Book 1 in the Ashen Twilight Series

"This is one novel that I could not put down because there was so much action and emotion

going on between all the characters that held me captivated."

Phoebe Jordan, Talk About My Favorite Authors

––––––––

"Loaded with action this fabulous tale enthralls you from the beginning. Fascinating characters

from Vampires to Shifter Elves are cleverly set up with a plot that is full of twists and turns....

An exceptional read."

Coffee Time Romance Reviews

––––––––

"a well-written, intricate story. Ms. Lori's descriptions are vivid and beautiful, evoking images in my mind that were like watching a movie as I read it."

Bitten By Books

Keep scrolling to read the first three chapters of the second book in the Ashen Twilight series!

# Within the Shadows of Mortals

Indio – A City Outside of California and Arizona - Present Day

Adric Lieber pulled up to the gas station and exhaled. It was nearing midnight. He couldn't believe how high gas prices had risen since they left Phoenix hours ago. Maybe they crossed some kind of weird portal of rising prices somewhere back on the road.

He stretched out his long legs and wiggled his toes to wake them up. The extensive driving time was tough but necessary since he wanted to catch up with the Houses as soon as possible. San Diego was hours away, but his limbs—and not to mention his stomach—needed some attention right now.

He turned to his wife, Petra, fast asleep on the passenger side. Man, did she look as beautiful as the day they wed. Her expression was soft under the moonlight's glow. Her hands cradled her swollen stomach, protecting their child within. He placed his hand over her womb, feeling the slight kick underneath his palm. Soon they'd have another addition to their family. One they had been planning for months now with much excitement. He thought about all the baby items passed down from friends and family throughout the years. All of the items were packed in the car, practically reaching the roof. There was so much to plan for in what seemed like such a little time. Would they even be ready when the time came?

Adric leaned down to kiss her belly. In response, she moaned and shifted to a new comfortable position. When her head turned toward him, he took the chance to steal a gentle kiss.

Petra blinked a few times to wake up. "Are we there already?" Her voice was husky and deep from sleep.

Dark gray eyes sparkled back at him and her pretty bronze complexion glowed. Must be what they say about pregnancy affecting a woman. He didn't know if it was possible for his heart to swell even more than it already did.

Adric gently rubbed her stomach. "Not yet. I'm going to get us some gas and then we'll be back on the road in no time. You feel like stretching your legs?"

Petra yawned and stretched her limbs out. "No, this is good. I'll probably stay here and guard the car for you." She chuckled softly and continued to caress her tummy.

"All right. I'll try not to be long." Adric kicked the door open and stepped out. "Can I get you anything while I'm inside?"

She pursed her lips. "Mmm. Maybe some of those crunchy onion things and a pint of Cookies and Cream?"

"Yecch. Not together I hope!"

Petra laughed. "Hey, I only dipped one time!"

"Uh huh. If I can't use that excuse, neither can you." He bent down to kiss her tummy. "Lock the car doors, okay? I won't be long."

"I love you."

"Love you back." He winked at her before closing the door behind him.

The night air was mild for this time of year in the desert. Adric was thankful. He already had more than enough of the harsh summer heat. Hopefully, California offered more mild temperatures even as they ventured into fall and winter. A new location and weather to match. Perfect time to start fresh.

He cut across the row of gasoline pumps., nodding politely to a tall man in a plaid shirt as he walked by. Inside the pay center, there was only a handful of people standing in line. His eye caught sight of the rows of brightly colored bags of chips. Right away he spotted the bright yellow bag his wife wanted. Hmm, might as well grab a few for himself while he's here. Who knows what the road would be like up ahead and how long it would take to reach their destination. To his surprise, the line was already thinning out pretty quickly by the time he got to the freezer.

While opening the side door, Adric held it open with his foot and reached for a cold soda with his free hand.

"I tell you, I never did see one until that day," a male voice near the cash register said loudly. "That eclipse was either a blessing or a curse of an invasion from outer space or something."

Adric carried his items to the register where the cashier spoke to an older customer on the other side of the counter.

"Come on, that was just a crazy weather mix up thing," the cashier said as he rung up the merchandise. "Some clouds or that global warming crap they're trying to sell us."

"No, no. The news reports said there were no clouds in the sky and no moon to block the sun. I tell you, something was wrong and I saw one of them dog things walking around that very same day."

Adric's body tensed upon hearing the man. Dog things?

"Right, pops." The chime of the cash register sounded throughout the front of the store. "Here, keep the change."

"You just wait and see when they attack us all. Eating our flesh and drinking our blood. You need to get yourself some silver to kill them. Or else you'll be sorry you didn't come prepared."

Adric swallowed and tried to remain undeterred by the man's confession. Had he really seen the Lycans?

The cashier smiled and waved as the older man left. "You have a good one now."

Adric chuckled and slid his items across the counter.

The cashier's name was etched in faded white on the left side of his chest: Chanson. He scoffed and pointed his thumb toward the door as he looked at Adric. "Can you believe some people?"

"Everyone's been crazy since that eclipse," Adric replied with a shrug. "I guess anything out of the ordinary will put people into a frenzy."

Chanson worked quickly to scan each item and place them in a flimsy plastic bag. "I mean, I believe in the paranormal. No doubt. But why get all kinds of crazy when it's nothing you can control? Once a creature puts its hands on me, I'll take care of it but until then...live and let live, man."

Adric's lips twisted upward in a grin. "I hear that." He checked the final total on the cash register and dipped into his pocket to retrieve his wallet. "I wish more folks thought like you. Things would be much more peaceful."

"Right?"

Adric grabbed a stack of bills and handed it over. "That should be it. Plus, I'll take forty on pump three."

Chanson held up the money. "This should be more than enough to cover it."

"Keep the change." Adric stuffed his wallet back in his pocket and scooped up the plastic bag.

"Thanks, man. You take it easy out there."

Once he stepped out into the night air, Adric's senses blared to life as if ice was thrown on his bare skin. There were no cars at the pumps or in the parking lot, except for his own vehicle sitting at the far end. All the lights had been broken, casting a shadow of darkness around the gas station.

Something was wrong. He could smell it. A sense of urgency threatened to break free as he rushed to the car. "Petra, open the..."

Then he saw it. A large hole shattered the passenger window near his wife's head. Blood splattered across the windshield cracked with webs of the fractured glass. She laid still, her hand still cradling her stomach and her face turned away from him.

Adric's body froze with a crippling emotion that nearly sent him to his knees. He lost all feeling in his arms as the plastic bag fell out of his grip and crashed to the ground. He saw only red as a blood filled rage ignited his body and threatened to release the beast that he carefully held within. Before he could take another step, a shot rang out from the darkness, and then another followed by more in succession after that. He felt each and every bullet piercing his skin like knives stabbing through rough tissue. His knees buckled and gave out under him.

Petra...He wanted to go to her. To hold her just one last time before it all slipped away. He wanted to run his hand over her stomach that held....no. That once held their child. Was it a boy or a girl? What kind of life would it have lead if...if...

He couldn't bring himself to believe it. The child he had created with his lifemate and the love of his life had both been taken from him. What kind of monster would do such a thing?

Thin slivers of pain shot throughout his body like blades of poison seeping in his veins. The stench of burnt flesh—his flesh—overtook his nostrils. His insides felt like they were melting as if a substance like...silver. These were silver bullets!

The world turned sideways as Adric fell limp to the ground with a crash. The pint of ice cream rolled by. Cookies and cream. His wife's favorite since he took her out on the pier on Fisherman's Wharf years ago. It reminded her of home, just like she had reminded him of home.

His breathing grew labored as he tried to hold on.

The sound of boots crunching behind him echoed in his ears. Dark black boots stepped into his view, but he couldn't move to see the face. More shots rang out in his ear as he was hit more times at close range. He felt his body relax as the burning pain overtook him. Slowly, he closed his eyes and surrendered to the hands of death.

***

Cassius peered up into the rearview mirror. The road was barely visible except for a few red lights ahead, sparse white lights reflected behind them, and the occasional landscape revealed by the streetlights. His thin shoulders tensed. Take it easy man. They're all right. Probably just got held up a bit back there.

"What is it?" He nearly jumped through the roof hearing his mate's voice in the passenger seat next to him.

"Jeez, Vala," he murmured. "Scare the crap out of me why don't you?"

Vala turned to look over her shoulder, shaking her long, dark mane away from her view. "You were thinking the same thing I was. Where are they?"

"I don't know. I've been waiting for them to catch up for the past few minutes." Cassius sighed. "Something's wrong."

"Turn around up ahead and go back to the gas station."

Tires skidded on the crunching gravel below as he turned around and headed back into the darkness. The shiny beacon of light ahead was his destination. From here, he could already tell Adric and Petra's car hadn't moved from their spot. A sense of uneasiness overcame him when he focused his vision. A group of men in black shirts and pants stood outside of the pay market carrying a large body of fur. Adric.

Vala gasped and sat up right away.

"Call Daoine," Cassius said parking a few feet away. "Let him know what's going on. Wait a few minutes and if I'm not back..." He stopped as he felt her hand on his shoulder. Turning toward her, he saw the determined expression in her dark mahogany eyes. He didn't want to finish that sentence, but they needed a plan just in case he didn't make it out. Whatever went on here, he had to get to the bottom of it.

He kissed her once more before stepping out of the car. He could smell them from here. A pungent scent of decay, fear and death. Hate. These punks were definitely human. It was about time they were taught not to mess with a member of the House. An attack on one brings the wrath of all members in retaliation. He hoped nothing unfortunate became of Adric...or worse, Petra.

Cassius was there to celebrate when his friend announced Petra's pregnancy. A new addition to the pack. Adric was already buying gifts for their child the moment he heard Petra was expecting. He doted on his wife and made sure to protect her wherever she went, careful to keep her from changing into her true form until the baby was born. Man, was he careful. If they had done something to Petra...

Cassius felt his eyes heat with a glow. His teeth elongated into fangs and his fingernails grew at his sides as he closed the distance between him and the killers. He hissed, alerting them to his presence...and a warning. They watched him closely, never moving their bodies or expressions which continued to stay blank. Good. They would cooperate and make this kill as quick and easy as possible.

Cassius opened his mouth to release a roar when a fiery arrow pierced the blackness, heading straight for him. He dove out of the way and landed on his hands and knees. In seconds, he on his feet again racing toward them.

A flash of light flooded him from all sides. The sound of heat sizzling skin erupted before he felt his skin burning as if the sun itself had decided to kick the moon out of the sky and take its place. Another fiery arrow soared straight toward him. The fire penetrated his skin, sliding into blood, bone, and muscle with a force that shot him backward into a nearby tree and impaling him to the wood. He tried to break away despite the fact that every movement shot pain throughout his body.

Pitch black darkness surrounded him and he couldn't see the face of the shadowy silhouette that approached him. He tried to tap into his night vision, but all he saw were dark silhouettes against a dim background. The figure before him held up a crossbow with another flaming arrow lined up for another shot. His attacker was tall, rather lanky and bald from the looks of his silhouette. Cassius refused to back down. If these punks want to take him down, he'll go down fighting and taking out as many of them as he could.

"Looks like you missed the sunlight, bloodsucker." The figure's voice was deep and raspy. "Allow me to oblige you."

Something clicked and the figure raised a bright light into his face. Cassius screamed, a mixture of a hiss and a primal growl as he felt the pain of his skin crackling like burnt meat under the light. The figure chuckled wildly as he shined the beam all over Cassius, who shut his eyes close in defense. Another light appeared next to him. And then another. Slowly, Cassius felt his life slipping away.

Vala, my love. If you could hear me, go! Find the Ashen Twilight House and tell them what happened!

Cassius breathed heavily and opened his eyes to see a large bird in the sky behind them. Its wings flapped wildly, cutting through the air as it soared into the night air.

"Behind you guys!" one of the men near the pumps yelled.

They turned just was Vala swooped down, her large beak reaching for them as she squawked loudly.

"Get it!"

A large arrow with a rope attached to it sailed into the air and pierced her breast with a sickening thhppp sound. Vala's body fell freely down toward the empty pavement. Cassius pushed away from the trunk, propelling his body forward enough to kick away the three men in front of him. With his scarred hand, he reached to his middle and pulled out the fiery arrow with a loud yowl on his lips. Gritting his teeth, he tossed it away and headed straight for them.

"Vala!"

One of the men pulled on the rope, dragging Vala toward the group. He lunged toward her only to be stopped by a large body with massive arms reaching for him.

Sirens broke out in the distance as Cassius flipped over his attacker in seconds. He dove down, his fangs ready to pierce the skin belonging to the man whose life he was ready to take to the grave and beyond. The warm, thick flesh tasted bitter when he dug his fangs into the man's neck. Feeling the life slowly drain from the man made the feed that much sweeter as he felt his power grow. Cassius then grabbed the man's head and twisted, snapping his neck in seconds. He leaped over the dead body as it fell to the ground with a loud thud. With one slash across the second man's face and throat, he turned to the third and slashed again.

Slowly his skin regenerated with their blood filling him as he stormed toward the pumps where Vala was dragged. The other group raised their weapons toward her and he felt his adrenaline shoot beyond the skies. He raced toward them, his hands raised as he embedded his nails into the closest one's back. He raised his arm, tearing through skin and bone with ease. The sirens grew louder and he hoped the rest of the caravan behind them had gotten out of dodge before the bloodbath began. More men dressed in black emerged from the darkness, closing in on him. Their weapons were poised and ready to fire.

"Freeze!" Behind him, an array of police cars stopped near the gas station entrance and drew their guns. "Hands up in the air! Every one of you!"

Cassius turned to the blood splattered passenger window where Petra's body rested in death's warm embrace. Her body was still and he could see the gunshot wound from here. His hands formed into fists. Not a few feet away Adric laid on the ground in his full Lycan form. His body was filled with smoking bullets that had pierced his thick skin. The mortal beasts won't get away with this massacre. I promise you that, Adric.

"Everybody get down on the ground. Now!"

The cops held their weapons poised on Cassius, watching and waiting...perhaps even hoping for him to move. He wouldn't give them the satisfaction. Not until the last moment.

He looked down at Vala's still frame. Her dark eyes watched him with a slight curve of her brow. She didn't have to speak for him to know she was calling out to him. Her heart beat raced and Cassius mentally reached out to her. Be strong, my love. We're going to get out of here.

"On the ground! Don't make me tell you again!"

Transform.

She blinked, understanding the words transmitted from his mind to hers.

"Now!" Cassius yelled.

In an instant she disappeared. The arrow barely hit the ground before she changed from a hawk to a large eagle, all within the blink of an eye.

Cassius moved fast. To mortals, he would only be a blur. He ran and grabbed the fiery arrows on the ground before dashing over to grab the dripping gas pump from its cradle. With a quick flick of his wrist, he poured the gas on Adric's car and the fallen Lycan's body before tossing the burning arrow onto the fluid drenched ground.

"No!" Whoever had yelled the word was soon drowned out by the explosion of the car.

Vala swooped overhead through the flames and Cassius jumped up to grab her open claws as she swerved up to gain more altitude. An array of bullets, arrows and firearms broke into the sky as they descended upward while the firestorm raged across the gas station down below.

I

Victim of Solace

Chapter 1

"Tell me what your world is like."

Ariya gazed at the moonlight streaming through the wide window of her bedroom. It had been much too long since this serene calm washed over her. Coming home had been a last minute decision. Now that they had arrived, she was glad Jace made the suggestion to come here.

Thankfully they had arrived under the dark veil of the night, for Jace's skin couldn't take the harsh sun's rays. Strange how just a few months ago she didn't have to worry about such things. After meeting the members of the Ashen Twilight House, so many things her life had taken a drastic turn...

Now her life had taken another dramatic turn since she gave her heart to Jace Archane, Regent in the House of Blood.

"You're here," she said, smiling at him. "You can see it."

Jace's cold touch sent shivers throughout her body. His hand cradled her chin, gently stroking it with his thumb. "I want to hear it from you," he said, turning her to face him. She loved how he looked, watching her from the soft ivory folds of her bed sheets. He was beautiful. Perhaps the most striking creature she had ever laid eyes on.

Dark, loose strands of wavy shoulder length hair fell over his smooth pale face. He was in his early twenties at the time of his change; an age he would forever remain in as mortals left behind their legacy of ashes. He'd always have his charming boyish face with cupid's bow lips, bright blue eyes, and a strong, sharp nose.

Now she had his undivided attention. His handsome expression was curious, waiting with the question of his words. His muscled chest was bare under the dark red shirt that lay open over the rise and fall of his breathing.

"Soft, damp green hills fill every part of our lands with cool springs and large bodies of water in between."

Jace chuckled. "Sounds like Scotland."

Ariya nodded. "It does have its similarities to your home. Like with the hunters, we assisted when we ventured to Dahomey in the mortal realm. Different worlds yet so much alike." She wrinkled her forehead in thought. "It was there I noticed that the men were bred to be warriors since the dawn of humans. Here the warriors, my guard, are women. We still have a specialized group composed of men who stay in the outskirts of our world. But the tradition has always been to keep female guards for the castle."

"Hmm, well the House of Lycan is the only house structured similarly."

"But not bred. They're born with their strength."

Jace nodded. "You have a point there. Do all Aziza girls grow up to be in the guard?"

Ariya shrugged. "Some do if they wish it." She giggled and poked Jace in the chest. "Anyway, I was describing the landscape for you. The days are longer here than in the mortal realm. We can bring the rain whenever the crops need it. And we celebrate every aspect of life's changes from life itself to life passing on, to birth, to the changes of the season and to betrothals followed by wedded unions."

Her fingers traced the hard line of his chest as she spoke.

"And what of your betrothal?" Jace caught her finger and looked up at her.

Ariya looked down at her captured finger, feeling her face heat at the question. "What of it?"

"You aren't already betrothed to some muscle-bound warrior who will try to fight me for your hand, are you?"

She laughed, shaking her head. "No, nothing like that."

"Good because I'd be ready to fight anyone to keep you by my side." He ran his fingertips lightly along the side of her arm. "I mean it."

She shifted slightly at his words. No man had ever said the things he said to her. She liked that Jace was possessive and protective of her.

"Good," he grinned. "I like being possessive and protective of you."

Smacking his arm, she pursed her lips. "Are you ever going to stop doing that?"

Jace laughed. "Never. It's too much fun." He leaned in to kiss her deeply.

Shivers of pleasure claimed her body and she gently stroked his cheek, leaning into the kiss. This felt so good. Too good. If only she could extend this moment for as long as she wanted...

Breaking the kiss, she took a slow exhale. "It's just that...with you. I can lay down all the responsibilities and the burdens of my station and just...be."

"Nothing wrong with that."

"No?" She winced slightly as she turned to sit on the edge of the bed. Why did that come out as more of a question than a statement? "I mean...although I am not betrothed, it has been expected of me to take a mate. Being Queen, I need a husband and fellow ruler. It's the Aziza way for as long and longer than mortals have lived."

"What if you were to take one, then? What if an outsider wanted to stay here and rule with you?"

His words made her stood up. What if...

She liked the idea of Jace being here with here. Ruling aside one another, loving one another, and just enjoying the calm life that they could build together. But it couldn't be.

"I—I don't know." She looked away. "I don't think it's ever happened before. For a while, it was just us and the mortals. Everything else was a myth that only lived in books." She wanted to say more. Possibly speculate on what it would mean for a Nightwalker to live within the lands, but she couldn't go on. They were enjoying each other too much for it to be ruined by what they couldn't have. "Why do you ask?"

Jace turned away, staring ahead into space as he spoke. A crease formed in the middle of his forehead and his lips thinned into a straight line as he stayed silent those next few moments. Finally, he turned to her. His stern, focused gaze melted away with a smile. "Curiosity is all."

Ariya raised an eyebrow. "And that's why you blocked your thoughts from me?"

"Privacy, my love," Jace said, grinning. Traces of his Scottish accent filtered through his words. She noticed it tended to mix with others, mostly American. Probably due to America being his home for the past few decades.

"You would miss your home if you stayed here," Ariya said.

Jace idly ran his hand along her arm. "I already miss it. I often wonder what my kids are thinking, even at this very moment. Or my faculty bosses. Do they think I died in the chaos? Or just up and left?" He shook his head. "Not sure which I think is worse."

"I bet you miss teaching since it seemed like you loved it so much."

"I do."

Jace had appeared so aloof and overconfident when she had first met him. A wall of protection from the lifetime of pain he had endured. As she got closer to him, the shell that he had tried so hard to keep around himself melted away. Now she couldn't bare being anywhere but near him.

"Enough of that now," Jace said smiling up at her. He slipped his arm around her waist and pulled her close. "I think we're both in need of a break once in awhile." His voice grew softer, huskier as he drew near. She anticipated the touch of his lips against hers, the tingling feeling that ran all over her senses. Jace had been the only man to touch her so intimately. Ever since that first time, she couldn't get enough of him.

Even now, Ariya's stomach fluttered as Jace's lips brushed hers. Her eyes closed and only touches remained to overtake her senses. Jace's strong yet gentle hand moved up to her shoulder, the warmth of his tongue and mouth sent bolts of pleasure, making her heart beat faster.

How much her life had changed since she fell in love with this dark figure. The single act of being in his presence transformed into a magical experience the moment her heart became his. No more was he just a man or a Nightwalker she felt drawn to. He was hers, an extension of herself in a way that had broken the barrier of personal space to become a part of her that she was free to touch and love anytime she pleased.

The moonlight in the dark sky had shifted, bathing them in darkness while the room basked in light.

"Taste me," Ariya said, feeling Jace move to her neck. His grip on her froze.

Morning would be upon them soon, and it'd be awhile before she could feel Jace again. For as the sunlight drew upon the lands, the rise and fall of his chest would cease, his breath would be frozen and death would claim his body.

"You want me to feed upon you, Ariya?" His breath brushed against her neck as she spoke, his hand caressing the dark curves of her body.

Ariya arched her head to look at him through the sparse of amounts of light that pierced the shadows in the room. She could already see the bright white shine of his elongated fangs peeking out from between his parted lips. The sight made her heart race, her breath shallow, and her wings flutter slightly against her back.

"Yes Jace," she breathed.

His masculine grip slid down to her hips urging her legs to wrap around his and straddle him.

Jace immediately reached for the soft gossamer sleeve of her dress. He pulled them down with a controlled urgency that sent her heart racing further. Careful of her wings, he gingerly opened the dress down the front to reveal her smooth honey brown, full breasts.

Ariya breathed in sharply, feeling the brush of his sharp fangs against her soft tender chest.

"I, Jacinus Aurelius Archane, now take you Ariya to be my wife." His hand slipped behind her back, brushing against her wings before resting between her shoulder blades. "In the presence of God and before the Aziza realm and the mortal world, I promise to be a loving, faithful, loyal lifemate to you. For as long as we both shall live."

Ariya grinned, feeling his lips melt into a smile once he leaned to kiss her.

"Both technically and figuratively," Jace added.

Ariya brushed her fingers through his hair, peering down at him. "I, Ariya, now take you Jacinus Aurelius Archane to be my beloved lifemate," she spoke softly against the crown of his head, cradling him to her chest. "In the presence of Mawu-Lisa and before the Aziza realm and the mortal realm. I promise to be a loving, faithful and loyal mate, wife and friend to you, for as long as we both shall live."

She felt his hand grab hers and raise it up. Through the darkness, the bright glow of the moonlight shined across her silver ring. The Claddagh ring he had called it. The same piece of jewelry that had belonged to his mother who handed it down to him to give to his own beloved. Ariya remembered the tale he shared when he first placed it on her finger and the promise he made to give it to her at the right time.

When worn as a ring it's supposed to symbolize friendship and love, he had told her. Now she wore it on the ring finger of her right hand with the heart facing her. The different ways to wear it had different meanings and for the life of her, Ariya couldn't remember which was which right now.

Just as she thought this, Jace looked down at her finger and kissed it before removing it from her finger. He then grabbed her left-hand ring finger and slipped the ring on, making sure the heart clutched between the hands and crown faced him.

"Thy beauty and brightness/And lightness is going/Under the bonnie brown waves of thy hair/Thy lips red and luscious/And blushes bright glowing/Smote me with love and sweetest despair." Jace stared deeply into her eyes as he recited the poem. He switched his own ring from one hand to the other.

Ariya wrapped her hands around his, stopping him midway. She took his ring and placed it on his finger with the heart facing her.

A quiet clink of the metal sounded between them as Jace covered her hands with his own. "Mo ghaol ort," he said.

I love you.

*

Jace pulled her to him and kissed her deeply, turning her around so that she lay under him. She was so beautiful, he couldn't believe that she belonged to him. He had carried their rings through the centuries, never believing to find the one he would give it to. He shared his bed and his body with so many but never before did anyone have his heart as Ariya did now.

Breathing in the soft scent of her, he dove down into the warmth of her hair covering her neck. Brushing aside her thick, dark curls, he kissed her neck and shoulder, gently running his tongue along her soft skin. He wanted her. He wanted them to give in to each other after sharing vows and seal their union now and forever.

Sitting up, Jace peeled away his shirt and let it fall to the floor. He unbuttoned his trousers and grabbed them with his boxers before sliding them down his body. At the moment, he was fully Nightwalker, but that would change quite soon.

Climbing back on the bed, he leaned down into her soft body, feeling alive as she wrapped her legs around his waist.

"Take me, Jace," Ariya breathed beneath him.

Lifting his lips, he felt the anticipation grow within her. The rise and fall of her heaving chest and beautiful bare breasts called out to him. The quickened pumping her blood beneath the softness of her skin. The way her dark eyes called out to have him. Every inch of her called his name. Oh, he was more than ready to oblige her body.

He leaned down with a hiss and dug his teeth into her neck, reveling in the strained moan she gave. He hadn't fed from her since that night he changed her and now he was more than careful to go too far.

Still, he drank, consuming her essence and her life, he reveled in the way her blood felt meshing into his. From now until forever...

His body came alive with the fast pumping of his heart and blood. His breathing deepened as he drank, clutching her hair in his grasp. He even felt his erection spring to life with the need to be deep inside of her.

Ariya.

Jace wasted no time as he ran his hand down her thigh, urging himself toward her warm center. In moments, he was inside of her, losing himself in the comfort and feel of her. He moved his hips within her, igniting a passion of his own that urged him to thrust deeper and faster. Ariya moaned again under him, moving her body to meet his as she held onto him, breathing his name over and over again.

He continued drinking from her, taking her blood and her body as his own that he continued to claim over and over again.

Faster his hips moved, sparking the fire of an oncoming explosion he wanted to make last forever. But his body wasn't his own as he reached the point of no return. He broke away from her neck, groaning as the explosion of pleasure claimed his body, thrusting his hips faster and deeper until he couldn't bare it any longer.

Ariya's legs clutched him, holding him inside of her as she wrapped her arms around him. Her breathing was heavy and strained, like a cry.

Looking down he saw tears in her eyes as she looked at him. Before he could question her, she reached up to brush away the last remnants of her blood that stained his lips. Then she pulled him down in a soft kiss that grew more passionate. He refused to move, enjoying the feel of her enclosed around him. He would stay here forever if he could. For now, he would be happy to make this moment last as long as he had a breath left in him.

Chapter 2

"My Queen!" A stifled knock echoed in the deepest part of Ariya's mind, rousing her out of her sleep. It took her a moment to focus in the darkness of the night. The absence of the moon high in the dark sky told her it was still late at night, but not quite morning. A cold shiver made her realize she had forgotten to dress before falling asleep after they had made love. Jace stirred next to her. A soft moan fell from his lips and the arm that held her tightened around her body. He must still be in a human-like sleep. Otherwise, he would be dead to the world around him.

"What is it?" he said, confirming her thoughts with the drowsy, huskiness of his words.

"My Queen! You must come quickly!"

It was Rasia on the other side. One of her handmaidens. Did she hear them earlier? "I'll be right there," Ariya answered. She swung her legs to the floor and froze when she felt Jace's cold hand wrap around hers.

"Do you have to go?" he asked.

She nodded. "I will see what she wants. I promise to return as soon as I can." She leaned down and kissed him softly, caressing his chin. "I give my word."

Ariya jumped to her feet and immediately slipped into her dress. Then she retrieved her robe hanging near the door.

"Before morning?"

"I'll try."

Ariya made sure to crack the door enough to slip through it before closing it behind her. "Rasia, what is it?"

"Tera, Dara and Komi's baby, is rooting."

Ariya felt her senses blaring to immediate alertness. Her mind raced and she quickly pulled herself together. "All right. Run back to their home and tell them I'm on my way. I'll grab my cloak."

"Right away." Rasia turned to rush off.

Ariya slipped back into her room, slipping off her night robe and replacing it with the cloak that hung near the door.

"Rooting?" Jace asked.

Wrapping the cloak around her shoulders, she looked over at Jace leaning on his elbow. In the blink of an eye, he appeared before her, cupping his hand over her cheek. "I don't know what that means, but I can tell from your expression it's serious."

"Yes. An Aziza child of about three years old begins growing wings. It's a painful and frightening process that needs the support of the community and the Queen near."

"Do you want me to do anything?"

She squeezed his hand and smiled. "No, my love," she said. "I appreciate you asking, but it is best if you stay here. It's almost morning. I shouldn't be too long."

With a kiss on his hands, Ariya turned away from Jace and started to the hall. She raced down the stairs as her mind ran over the steps she would take to help little Tera. She ran over the ingredients in her mind: passion flower for relaxing the muscles; peppermint leaf for sleep and calm, visionary dreams; valerian root for the calming process; and lavender flowers.

The little girl's screams reached the door by the time Ariya had grabbed the ingredients and arrived at the forest home. Much of the surrounding village had already caught word of Tera's situation, stayed outside the doors to hear any word of the progress.

Ariya followed Komi and Dara to the back of the house where their daughter's room sat under the moonlight. Tera cradled her body in a fetal position as she lay on the table in the middle of her bedroom. Her back was to Ariya as she entered the room and already two thin lines between her shoulder blades began to protrude through the skin. The girl screamed in pain.

Ariya removed her cloak and turned to the mother, Dara. "Have you done anything to sedate the breakage?"

The woman shook her head, her short, dark hair waving. "No," she whimpered. "We called for you as soon as it started. We didn't believe it would happen so soon. It was to happen many days later."

"We will take care of her now. Get me some allspice extract. Make sure you crush the herbs and mix it with lavender. We'll try to soften the process before it gets any further."

Ariya circled around the table to face the little girl. Thick, hot tears stained her red eyes which she quickly shut as soon as Ariya faced her.

"It's okay, little one," Ariya said, taking the little girl's hands to soothe her. "I am here to help."

The girl slowly opened her eyes to gaze at Ariya. She felt the little girl ease slightly before she cried out in pain. Every moment would feel like a lifetime. Ariya knew this feeling as she remembered her own rooting well. She lifted her hands and gently ran them over the girl, calling up a warm, comforting energy to calm the girl as best as she could. The herbs would certainly do better to work through the girl's body, using her own system for the healing process, but this would do for now.

Dara and Rasia rushed in with the crushed herbs and flowers Some were not ripened and others were well developed into the spring season. The scent of lavender and spicy pimento filled the air as the women brought Ariya the lightly oiled mixture.

"Can you make it stop!" the girl said through shaky words. "Please!"

Ariya's heart ached at the pleading girl's cry. "I will certainly do my best. I need you to focus now, Tera. You'll feel your skin warm, but it'll dull the pain along with the power I have given you. Try to hold still."

The thin lines had expanded to the size of branches about a half an inch thick. Ariya immediately felt the cool, yet warm pulse of the herbs on her fingers when she scooped up a small amount. She quickly slathered the ointment over the girl's tightened skin, sending shots of her power in her hands to hasten the treatment. Although the allspice was from the local Aziza realm fruit trees, it still resembled a combination of cloves, juniper berries, cinnamon, and pepper.

Tera's held her eyes closed as she hugged herself tightly. She cried out as her honeyed skin burned a shade of red where her wings stemmed. The skin tightened and grew like liquid burgeoning under a tight sheet. The skin soon broke, allowing a slim, wet membrane of skin to burst out from beneath the flesh.

Ariya leaned back as she watched the wings stretch and fold out against the girl's back. Tera calmed and fell limp on the table. Her mother, Dara, rushed over with a wet towel she wrapped around her daughter. Looking up, her dark oval eyes broke into tears as she smiled at Ariya.

"Thank you, my Queen," she said. "This is a joyous day."

Ariya nodded. "Indeed it is. In the coming hours, we will hold a celebration for Tera's dawn of age. Soon she'll be like the other little ones trying to fly."

Dara laughed. "I'm sure. First she will have to get used to having these wings."

***

When Ariya stepped out of the forest home, she announced Tera's condition to the rest of the village. Tera's father, Komi was eager to race back home and greet his daughter. The man reminded her of her own father and how proud he was that she, the last and youngest of his daughters, came into her own wings.

Cheers and music broke out and a celebration was called to commence later in the day. Looking up, she saw the sun breaking over the horizon. By the time she arrived back to her bedroom, the sun's rays were already reaching into the sky...and Jace was asleep. Dead, perhaps was more like it but she refused to use such a term to describe his short sleep during the day.

She turned to the bed where Jace slept peacefully with one arm across his chest and the other draped to the side of him. It looked as if he were feeling around the area she slept, wishing she was here. The thought made her heart heavy as she removed her cloak and hung it back up on its hook.

Morning's rays would soon stream in through the terrace. She always loved waking up to the kiss of the sunlight upon her face. Jace couldn't be exposed to the same. Noticing the peaceful look upon Jace's face, she quickly jumped to her feet and rushed to close the shades. It was a good thing she remembered. One of the many things she had to keep in mind now.

Her mind wandered to the previous night and the promise they made to each other. Husband. Wife. Mate. Friend.

A tingle followed by a shiver claimed her body. Ariya wrapped her arms around her torso, feeling the cool morning air drifting into the room.

From the moment they stepped into the Aziza fairy realm, Ariya was careful to keep Jace hidden as they trekked to the castle. Thankfully there weren't Aziza guards or citizens outside. The ones that did see them had thrown curious gazes and murmurs at the outsider who came into their world. No mortal, or other immortals for that matter, ever entered the Aziza Fae realm. For the longest time, werewolves, vampires, and other shifters lived in between the pages of a book rather than reality.

There were so many things she had come to find out were not as they believed. She had a duty to inform her people of their existence. Soon. She couldn't help wondering how they would react to Jace. As a Nightwalker, he shared the traits of the fearful Asiman creatures that threatened their lands and people. How would she tell them he was her lifemate and nothing like the Asiman? He was her husband and her choice...

Their earlier conversation returned back to her along with the thoughts she had cloaked from him. As an Aziza Fae Queen, she was to not only take a mate but produce an heir. How could she do so when a Nightwalker was unable to?

The thought made her heart heavy with the idea. She didn't want to think about this now. Not after such a joyous occasion and after giving her life, love and heart to the only man she wanted to be with. Jace's blood ran through her veins at that very moment and they were connected. Now, after last night, it was official.

Ariya grabbed the bottom hem of her soft, billowy nightgown and walked back to the bed where Jace lay in peaceful rest. She bent down, placing her hand on his forehead. Cold. Once he awakened he would need to feed soon to keep going. She promised to be here when that happened.

***

The day announced its arrival not long after Ariya dozed off. She had planned to use the morning and afternoon to visit the Dreamcaster, the man believed to be the oldest of the Aziza people. He knew what the near future held. Perhaps he had a suggestion on how to introduce Jace to the Aziza people. His visions always came in dreams or symbols. Based on what the symbols meant to the one asking, the answer was always clear.

After watching the sun hang high in the sky from the comforts of her bed, Ariya finally decided to rise and prepare for the day. She took a quick bath then changed into another dress. This one was a pastel, lavender creation that floated around her body like a cloud. It was one of her favorites. She then reached for her hooded cloak and slipped it, securing the hood with a golden metal clasp across her neck. First, she would stop by her father's library to check on something that had been bothering her for the better part of the morning.

As she started on her path, Ariya remembered the dream she had of Vladislav Tepes III and Alexandru Drago. In the car on the way to the West Coast, she recalled how Jace had tensed at the mention of Drago's name. Did Jace know him or perhaps met him by way of Vlad somehow?

In passing, Jace had mentioned how the other Nightwalkers had fought Vlad. There was nothing mentioned in the history books as such, but maybe that was for the best. The Nightwalkers and other members of the House wished to remain under mortal eyes. Still the event went down in history as a great and sad battle, for it was the one where Jace had lost his father.

She didn't remember much about Vlad in the history books, other than the fact that he was the inspiration for Stoker's famous Dracula book. Strange that the famous fiction about vampires would lead to a possible connection to the real life Nightwalkers she had come in contact with. Ariya had asked Jace about the dream and despite his dodge to answer her question about whether he knew Drago or not, she noted his uncomfortable stillness. Perhaps there would be something written about Vlad's connection to the early stages of the three houses. She made a note to ask Jace about that when he woke up.

Outside she caught the attention of one of her guards and called her over. "Send word to Cidra to keep watch outside my bedroom door until my return."

She would feel safer knowing her most trusted friend and leader of the Aziza Amazon guards would watch over Jace. There was a chance that Cidra would not approve if she knew the truth about him. Still, Ariya trusted her most of all and know she would listen to reason when the time came.

The tall Aziza guard named Alleyna frowned. "Where are you going?" she asked. "He's still in there, isn't he?"

Ariya froze at the question. Had she spotted them last night when they crossed realms?

She felt Alleyna's gaze pinning her to the spot. "Did you give yourself to him, Ariya? He stayed in your room all night."

"That is not your concern, Alleyna," Ariya said, focusing her gaze on the guard. "Please relay the message to Cidra."

"Consider the message received."

Ariya turned to face her friend and guard who stood by leaning on her staff. Her most trusted friend who seemed like a sister stared right back at her. Bright, dark brown eyes stared right at her before averting her gaze. "Thank you, Alleyna. I wish to speak with the Queen alone."

The tall guard turned to look at them before she bowed her head and left.

Cidra met Ariya's gaze, immediately making her tense.

In the years they had known each other, Cidra watched over her and her sisters, growing closer to be like a sister when they had passed. The guard took her position seriously and although she had many romantic interests and offers from the men's guard, none had caught her attention yet. It was not surprising to Ariya. Cidra was gorgeous with dark, smooth mahogany skin, short close cropped tight curls of hair, full feminine lips and a cat-like brown eyes.

"You wished to see me?"

Ariya laughed as she passed her friend. "Have you began reading my mind, too? You're as bad as..." Her smile disappeared right away as she realized what she was about to say.

"As bad as...?"

For a moment, Ariya thought about confiding in her friend. They had known each other for what seemed like a lifetime and there was nothing she couldn't tell her. Well, almost nothing. "Nevermind. I have to see Runin. Please do not let anyone pass through my bedroom doors doors. Especially when night falls."

"Ariya, if I may speak," Cidra said taking Ariya's arm as she softened her voice. "I don't think it was wise bringing him here. He walks during the night and disappears during the day. I know there are many others like him and I was grateful to help them with the eclipse, but he commands so much of your attention. What kind of...man is he?"

Ariya gazed into her friend's dark eyes. "A man who saved my life more than once, Cidra. Please trust me on this. I need you to help me, not cause more obstacles."

Cidra pursed her lips together. "You have changed, Ariya. Ever since your return with him. You seem...different."

Ariya shivered slightly despite the warm day. She was different. Since she drank from Jace, her senses were heightened. Her powers were stronger and she knew her physical characteristics were more...magnetic.

She ran her tongue along the slightly elongated fangs that had grown since that fateful night. Not quite the size of a Nightwalker's but still more prominent than a Fae's normal teeth. She had almost forgotten about them until now.

"Please, Cidra. Do as I ask." Ariya's voice was low yet firm. Perhaps one day she would confide in her friend. Right now she needed to get away on her own and figure out what they would do in the coming days.

The young guard finally nodded slowly. "I will get a few guards to stand watch."

"No. Only you." Ariya reached back to pull her hood over her head to block out the sun's rays. "I should be back before nightfall."

With that, she turned and continued along the grassy path.

***

Breaking news tonight in Indio. A fire broke out near the gas station off the 10 highway around midnight tonight. Locals say the fire started abruptly and have attributed it to a faulty, leaking gas pump that may have been ignited by the flames. Small torches were found on the grounds, but there was no sign of any foul play. More to come as we receive updates on the story.

"No sign of foul play? They should interview me." Cassius gritted his teeth and groaned gruffly. Vala sat on the bed behind him on her knees at first before resting back on her heels. She ran her hand over the open wound scarring his hard, muscular torso and gently picked out the strips of burnt wood. "You know, I can tell they were going for the old-fashioned stake in the heart bit. But I'm happier leaving that crap in the past where it belongs."

"Yeah, well it looks like that fire did the damage. Not sure what they doused it in but it's torn into your skin pretty good. You need to feed?"

He turned to look over his shoulder at her. "You offering?"

She smacked his arm and climbed off the bed. "I'm serious. We need to get you back to full health. Did you get Julian on the phone?"

He shook his head. "I tried to call the last cell number he gave me but...nothing. It doesn't even go to his voice mail."

After the attack, they escaped to the nearest motel off the highway. Vala had quickly shifted into her human form to check them in and pay the concierge while Cassius waited outside in the shadows. Thankfully, the proprietor didn't give them any trouble or ask too many questions. Now they needed to get back on their feet and find some new transportation.

"It's probably for the best," she said as she crossed into the adjoining bathroom. She tossed the bloodied rags into the bathroom sink. "We don't want any mortals tracking us." Reaching to the side, she grabbed clean, dry towel from the rack and drenched it with the running water.

"What is it?" Cassius asked from the bedroom. "You're blocking your thoughts from me."

She laughed softly to herself. That will never get old. As a Shifter Elf, she was used to thoughts being her own, but ever since getting with Cassius, a Nightwalker from the House of Blood, she had to watch herself. Very few members of the House chose mates outside of their own clans. That included Vex the Lycan. Not long ago, he had gotten with the Nightwalker Shelly. Vala still remembered the rumors about Vex, Shelly, and the Nightwalker Regent Jace. It was a tragedy how it ended but from what she understood, things had eventually smoothed themselves out.

Vala sighed. There was something about Cassius that made him so irresistible to her. After three years, their relationship just kept getting stronger and stronger.

He smiled at her when she turned to meet his gaze. "You know it, baby. Now tell me, what's up?"

Vala leaned against the bathroom sink, resting her hands on the edge of the basin. "What happened back there, Cass? It was as if they were waiting for us. They knew exactly how to hit us and where. Not to mention how Adric and...Oh my Go—" She clapped her hand over her mouth, cutting off her words. "Petra and her baby."

"I know." His hands formed into fists on his lap as he thought about the young family and, most of all, the child that never had a chance to live outside its mother's womb.

Vala had given them a handmade dreamcatcher that her grandmother had created when she was a child. It was a gift from her to Adric and Petra in preparation for the Lycan ceremony of the Beginning, a ceremony for new births. Now the ceremony would be a burial to honor their memories.

"I wanted to give them a proper burial," Cassius said. "But there was no time. They would have taken their bodies and used them study how to wipe us all out."

"So it's true. We have mortal hunters on our tails. They know about us then."

He nodded slowly. "It would seem that way. Soon they'll gather more in their group to hunt us down. I wish I knew what to do, but we need all members of the House right now. I'll try to contact Julian again. You need to contact Daoine so we can formulate a plan to figure out how to get out of this mess."

The room fell silent except for Vala's steel toe cowboy boots thumping against the creaky floor. She placed the warm, wet towel against his wounds causing him to sharply suck in air through his teeth. "I don't think that's going to help, love," he said placing his hands over hers.

She sat down next to him, pushing away the strands of dark hair that fell over his eyes. Without speaking, both of them knew exactly what he needed.

Vala set the towel beside her before scooting closer to him. "We're going to need to get back on the road again or at least try to find out where everyone stopped."

"We will. First I need to energize myself."

She smiled and grabbed his hand, placing it on the opposite side of her neck as she bared it to him.

Cassius opened his mouth to allow his canines to fall down into sharp fangs. With a hiss on his lips, he gently gripped Vala's neck and pulled her close. Not another moment passed before he dug his eager teeth into her waiting neck. Breathing in, he felt the exchange of her energy ignite his own. Her warm blood bubbled to the surface, covering his lips with a sweetness he welcomed with eager anticipation.

***

The morning dew spread across the freshly grown grass like drops of diamonds. The dampness in the air caressed Ariya's skin as she walked across the open field, leaving palace home in the distance. Young children were already dancing, playing and running outside of the small village while their parents watched and worked at the same time. Ariya greeted the people of her village and they met her with wide, warm smiles, welcoming her home.

Vina, the young woman who had recently wed to Ardin, the young Aziza warrior, carried their infant child in her arms. She rocked the baby slowly as she sang an old Aziza lullaby. Ariya remembered the song from her childhood and found herself humming along. She nodded when Vina met her gaze, raised the child slightly and smiled as she passed by. Then she continued singing the lullaby.

Ariya met the other parents with warm greetings she mused over the quick growth of the children. Aziza children grew in what seemed a matter of months while mortals took years to grow into adulthood.

Much like mortal children, the Aziza taught their offspring the ways of the world from birth. Their wings would already start to sprout from their backs shortly after their third year of birth the trials of learning to fly followed soon after.

Ariya passed by a few students learning to tame the air with their wings. Their little faces would grimace and their lips would scrunch up as they hunched over, trying with all their might to flap their wings in the open air. She cringed when they fell forward, sometimes flat on their faces. Poor things. It reminded her of her own flying trials when she was young. She stopped to help them to their feet and offering little tips that she had learned on her own.

"Don't think about it," Ariya told them. "Just let the wind carry you away like a leaf on a lazy summer day."

Their dark brown cheeks warmed with blushes as they thanked her then rushed to their parents, shouting how the Queen had helped them.

Ariya continued toward the Dreamcaster's home feeling like she was walking on air.

Tingo, the bootmaker, still had his home built of straw standing near the edge of the village. The Dreamcaster's dwelling wasn't too far ahead. Her wings fluttered nervously beneath her cloak and a chill fell over her body. An ominous feeling wafted over her, but she quickly pushed it away as she ventured onward. There was no way to know what exactly the Dreamcaster would tell her. Ariya only hoped he had good news and encouraging words to share with her.

***

The shrill cell phone's ringtone buzzed throughout the small hotel. Rich yanked the phone from its cradle. Who the crap was calling him now? Whoever it was, they lacked the good sense to wait until a more sane hour to call. "Hammond," Rich said, failing to hide the gruff annoyance in his voice.

"Rich, it's Cassius. I can't talk long. I'm sending you the telephone number to my location. Hang up and dial back."

The click sounded before Rich could respond. Cassius? What was he calling for when he could just drop by the room?

Rich stole a quick glance at Joanna, who was still asleep on their bed. Good thing the noise didn't wake her. She needed all the rest she could get with her condition.

He replaced the phone back on its cradle. A succession of numbers flashed in his mind no doubt from Cassius. Nightwalkers freaked him out with their mental mumbo jumbo. Since his best friend was a Nightwalker, he learned to live with it. Though it still drove him batty at times. He didn't even want to start on Gael's mental acrobatics and powers.

Rich dialed the number and waited. The Shifter Elves baffled him even more than the bloodsuckers. By the second ring, a familiar female voice answered. Right away he recognized her as one of Daoine's house members, Vala.

"Rich, where's Michael?" Vala asked. "We've been trying to get a hold of everyone for the past hour."

"We're all spread out. I had to take Joanna somewhere safe and from there I lost track of the house. I heard about what happened at the gas station. Any of the House members get caught up there?"

"Yeah. Adric and Petra. Cassius and I got wounded trying to help, but they..." she sighed heavily over the line. "I'm so sorry."

Rich cursed softly under his breath. Adric and Petra...He couldn't believe it. All of them had made plans to welcome the next generation in the House of Lycan. Adric was one of his most trusted members always ready to help out and do what was best for his family and friends. Petra couldn't have been a better match for him. Her quiet strength and protective nature complemented Adric's and both would have been the best parents to their young. The realization that they were gone hit a little too close to home as Rich nearly put his fist through the wall.

"Rich, I think they know about us. From what Cassius and I saw, they had weapons geared to hit us in our weak spots. I don't know who these people are or how they know us, but we aren't safe anymore. They're out to hunt us."

"Hold on, now," Rich said holding up his hand. "Are you sure about this?"

"Positive," Vala's normally strong voice was soft as she grew nervous. Rich didn't like the sound of this one bit. It had to be serious if even Vala was tripping out. "I think we have to get together and fast. I don't know what these mortals are planning, but it looks and feels like genocide."

"Wait a minute. Mortals? You mean this attack was by humans and not Rens?" He heard shuffling before Vala finally answered. "Yeah."

Son of a—

Rich gritted his teeth. It was official. After the battle between the Shifter Rens and the Ashen Twilight House, they were outed. The mortals knew they existed. He had no idea who these attackers were, but if he knew humans, they were some kind of special hunters trained to take the houses down. He wasn't going to let that happen. Not while there was a breath left in his body.

"All right." Rich ran a tired hand over his face as he sighed. "I'll give you my location. You guys get here as fast as possible. We won't be going anywhere for a while and it's best if we have strength in numbers before we lose any more of us. In the meantime, I'll try to get a hold of Michael and the rest of the House to figure out what's going on there. I'll contact Daoine and let him know you're all right." Rich gave them the address and room number of the hotel off the highway. "Watch your back and, I mean it, get here as soon as possible."

"We will. How's Joanna?"

Rich turned to the bedroom Joanna still slept peacefully. Even though he was paying attention, he made sure to keep an eye on his mate's soft breathing and the multiple rhythmic heartbeats within her body. "Resting. She was getting a bit tired of the road. After that news report, she felt a bit shook up and wanted to get off the roads."

"Probably best," Vala said. "We'll make sure nothing happens to her."

Rich's body warmed with his friend's words. "I appreciate that, but I'm more concerned with you both getting here safely first."

"We'll get on the road right away."

After saying their goodbyes, Rich hung up the phone and released a heavy exhale. He walked over to the bedroom and watched his wife sleeping softly on her side. One arm lay protectively over her stomach while she rested her head on the other.

Watching her, he pushed away thoughts of what it must have been like to be in Adric and Petra's place. Hopefully, they hadn't suffered in their last moments. Whoever did this to them would suffer if he had a choice in the matter. Slowly and painfully.

He walked over to his side of the bed and climbed in, wrapping his arm over Joanna to pull her close. His large hand covered her swollen stomach.

Closing his eyes, he listened to the heartbeat of his woman he loved and their two children within her body.

Not even a month ago, she had shared the news of her pregnancy with him and the rest of the House of Lycan. Shortly after that, she began to show. If Joanna were human, it would take months for the child to come to term, but with shifters—especially Joanna's clan which had strong wolven blood—held their young no more than sixty-three days. He hoped the stress didn't take its toll on her while they searched for their new home. He couldn't risk having her induced into early pregnancy.

One thing was for sure, he wouldn't let the same fate that became Adric and Petra fall unto Joanna and himself. He would stop it by any means, even at the risk of his own life.

Chapter 3

The blue sky lit up as the afternoon fell upon the lands. Soon the sun would dip behind the deep green mountains when evening arrived. Ariya stepped into the hut made of marble and Earth. The old Dreamcaster looked upon her as if he already knew the reason for her arrival. It wouldn't surprise her if he did.

It had been hundreds of mortal years—and an unknown amount of time in the Aziza realm—that the Dreamcaster had left the comforts of his home and homeland to cross into the mortal realm. No one knew exactly what he saw shortly before his return. All they knew was that he wasn't the same wise, rational sage he had been before he left. Most of his words seemed like babble and the look in his shadowy, brown eyes was distant as if he wasn't mentally all there. Somehow he made sense to whoever received his words of wisdom.

"The end is closer than you think, young Queen," the older Dreamcaster said.

Ariya turned to him as she pushed the thick wooden door closed behind her. "I've come for guidance, Amawato." She made sure to put emphasis on their word for healer to show how much she could use his help.

A slight frown darkened his face as he waved her over. He squinted his eyes tightly. His face, worn with the lines of age, looked as if he had lived well beyond his years and tired of it all. He used the crooked cane made of wood to move over to the old wooden chair perched in front of the fireplace.

"Come."

Slowly she approached him, removing the hood draped over her head.

The Dreamcaster shifted his weight a little and sat in silence as if pondering his next words. The air had been mild outside when Ariya stepped in. The exterior atmosphere seeped into the homey hut, heightened by the heat from the small, crackling fire in the hearth. Ariya was sure the temperature shot up a few degrees each moment he sat pondering in the silence. Finally, he reached over to the table beside him where a couple of bowls sat side by side: one with water and the other with grainy beige sand. He dipped a crooked, shaky hand into the bowl of sand.

"The vast lands of the mortal realm are drenched in blood." His voice was thick and throaty as he threw handfuls of the sand into his fireplace. "You've seen the violence they are capable of."

Ariya wasn't sure how to answer. It wasn't the mortal's lives she integrated within. It was the members of the Ashen Twilight House. Did he speak of them or the mortals?

"Them?"

"Responsibility lies at your feet," he said, resting both hands on the head of the cane. "A big task you are not prepared for."

"I am prepared to do what is necessary to help my people, Runin," Ariya said. "My parents must have known this before they died."

"Feared it, child," he said focusing his gaze on her. His once brown eyes now glowed grey—nearly white—as he looked at her. "Since your return, you have kept one foot in this world and the other in theirs. The heart and the mind are rivals at odds. Your kingdom and desires are here. You have to choose how you will live. A future lies within one."

"And the other?"

He frowned, dropping his gaze away to stare into the fire. "You understand the wall that ends the branch defining your family, since the time of the mortal's birth."

Branch. Family branch. Did he know about Jace? Of course, he had to know.

But would he know about the Nightwalkers? Male Nightwalkers couldn't sustain a seed long enough to grow into a child. Even when their bodies essentially came alive during the feed, their seed died shortly after leaving their body. Still, it had never been tested with a female Aziza Faerie. Would it be different with her?

"I understand. And what can I do with this understanding?"

Runin turned around to face her again with those grey-white eerie, glassy eyes that seemed to stare right through her.

"Choose which destiny will come to you. A path will be laid open. Deaths will follow."

"Is there any way to stop these deaths?" she asked, stepping forward.

"No, yakpovu," he said solemnly. "Their fates are sealed. There is a chance to fight the darkness with its own night. Those who shall stand up to it will not be the ones to fall. Just remember the origin of your family. Their spirit will not lead you astray."

He tapped his cane and slowly pulled himself up with a grunt. "Now you must go before nightfall. Return to your home before the darkness spreads."

Ariya walked toward the door with Runin's words still in her mind. So many questions fell upon her, but she knew she couldn't ask for clarity. His advice was to be given in its context, understood to her best interpretation. The way he said yakpovu—child in a certain instance and young woman in another—sent a chill through her body.

As she went to the door, she stopped to turn back and watch as he threw water into the fire.

"Amawato, was it a mistake bringing an immortal here?"

He made a sharp sound as if sucking air through his teeth before turning to his side. "Sometimes we all suffer for our choices."

***

Later that evening as Ariya returned home, she couldn't shake the ominous words from her mind. What did they mean? Will she suffer consequences for her choice to bring Jace here?

Remembering the time, she hastened her steps across the grasslands and started toward the bright shiny marble castle as evening set in. Smoke emanated from the chimneys and outside stoves of each of the small homes as the families of the village prepared dinner. Dark cast iron pots were set over cracking open fires. The aroma of home cooked spices on main dishes, warm homemade bread and roasts filled the air.

Ariya's stomach rumbled and she hoped the kitchen maids would be ready to serve once she arrived home. First, she needed to see Jace.

Just then the sound of children playing on the grass washed over her. She looked up to see various young Aziza Fae children dancing and running outside the fields of the castle. Their tiny wings flapped behind them as they held up firecracker sticks, luminous with miniature sparks. Their energy and excitement were infectious and in no time Ariya found herself smiling and laughing as she watched their frivolity.

A dark shadow caught her eye. She looked up to the large windows overlooking her terrace and saw a trace of a face deep in the shadows. The strong, handsome visage held an air of serenity as he watched the children. A certain peace washed over him, one she hadn't seen before unless he was sleeping. There was also something else in his eyes: longing. For what, she wasn't exactly sure of, but there was something she felt in him that touched her.

Ariya felt her body warm against the cool night air as she opened herself to sense his emotions.

Perhaps he longed to share the gift of life with her in the form of a child. Although he was a Nightwalker, he was still a man who was once mortal with the needs of a human man.

Ariya started toward the large doors, feeling Jace's eye on her as she passed the children.

"Safe evening to you, Queen Ariya," the children said in unison.

"Safe evening to you all as well," Ariya replied, smiling warmly. The Aziza guard at the door welcomed her with a slight bow of her head. Ariya returned the gesture before starting up the stairs. Strange, Cidra wasn't there guarding her door. Instead, it was a young Aziza Fae who had been recruited not long ago when her parents still lived.

Ariya looked around. "Where's Cidra?"

"She left not long ago, my Queen," the young guard said. "She said for me to keep watch in her place. She gives her word, it was urgent. Something to do with training the new Fae guards that had arrived."

Ariya pursed her lips and exhaled. Cidra hardly went against her orders and when she did, it was more serious than the excuse she left behind. There was no doubt about it, Cidra was certainly unhappy with her.

Placing a quick smile on her face, she nodded and excused the girl. After she'd hurried off, Ariya looked around the area before slipping into her room.

Inside, Jace stood on the terrace looking over the lands as he held his hands behind his back. His wavy, shoulder length hair blew in the cool breeze. She noticed he had changed into the black satin robe and matching pants she had laid out for him earlier. Even as she drew close to him, he didn't bother to turn around, yet she could tell he sensed her presence.

Ariya walked to him, wrapping her arms around his taut stomach as she rested against his back.

"The innocence of children is relaxing," Jace said, wrapping his arm around hers. He leaned back into her. "No worries. Nothing to hide with them. Just endless imagination, truth, and devotion."

She breathed in, enjoying the feel of how his body and hers curved right into each other. "You can feel them?"

"Their emotions as well as their thoughts, yes. It's refreshing. I have to admit this...world is rather soothing."

"This is home." She waited until he turned to face her so she could lean on his chest and hold him close. His robe opened to reveal his pale chest. She ran her hand along the taut skin and felt his muscles flex beneath her touch. Her soft, brown hand contrasted with his ashen skin like night against day.

"Your home, Ariya." His voice was low and slightly strained. "I'm but a stranger here."

"You don't have to be. You can stay here with me. We can rule together."

"And how would we do that, hmm? You rule in the day and I in the night?" He laughed softly, but it was absent of any humor or amusement. "And how would your people feel having a Nightwalker as King? Not to mention a rather pale one at that?"

"Your skin doesn't matter, Jace."

"I'm not Aziza," he added with a sad smile, stroking her chin.

She couldn't deny that. Cidra's words returned to her from that morning. He walks during the night and disappears during the day. What kind of man is he?

She was the first to ask, but she definitely wouldn't be the last. Cidra was smart as a whip and loyal, one of the few traits that earned her the rightful place as head of the Aziza Fae Amazon guard. She had Ariya's most sacred trust. Still, Ariya was reluctant to tell Cidra about her and Jace. She wanted to wait until the time was right...whenever that was.

Ariya's thoughts were pushed aside as she felt Jace's strong hands caress her stomach. He reached up to undo the metal clasp tying the cloak around her neck. Slowly he loosened her from the soft folds of fabric, unraveling a secret he had long awaited to reveal.

"Can I ask you something, Jace?"

"You can ask me anything once all your clothes are on the floor."

She laughed and squeezed his arm. "I'm serious."

"So am I." He opened her cloak and let it fall to the floor with a soft whoosh.

Ariya placed her hand on his chest, stopping him from going any further. "Remember when I had that dream in the car? I asked you about Alexandru Drago."

Tension settled in his jaw and his eyes darkened. "Yes."

"You knew him, didn't you?"

Dropping his hands, he stepped away from her. Ariya immediately missed warmth of his touch and closeness as he widened the distance between them.

"Vlad was the man my father and Uncle fought against. We saw the people he impaled, mortals and immortals alike." He walked to the terrace and leaned on the cold, metal railing. The sun had already dipped beneath the horizon and the sound of children laughing and playing had died down. "While the battle was going on, we fought our way to the interior of his castle. I almost caught him, but he got away. I ran in just in time to see a Nightwalker being drained in his watchtower. Drained...Like an animal." Jace swallowed as he stared ahead, speaking idly. His mind had returned to the past. The dark shadow of the memory settled on his tense shoulders. "He begged me to kill him and that's what I did. Vlad would have drained us all for our power if he could. He tried numerous times, but it always failed him. He left Wallachia and we were forced to move on. Daoine and Julian had reason to believe that Alexandru Drago worked with him even after he escaped. Perhaps everything he did was under Vlad's plan."

"It appeared that way." Ariya walked to the terrace to join him. She peered out at the moonlight rising over the grasslands. A pale ray of light shone on the dark green grass, illuminating the blades like tiny stalks of light. "From what I saw in the dream or memory, Vlad asked Drago to form some kind of army."

Jace shook his head. "Could be just a dream, Ariya. Someone's speculation. How could you have seen something that happened in the past?"

"Perhaps the same way I saw that battle you were in. Long before I met you."

He looked over at her. "We had a strong connection."

"And maybe that connection leads right back to your past through Drago and Vlad somehow."

Jace cradled her cheek in his hand. "What is it, Ariya? Something someone said to you?" He looked down at her body. "You're shaking."

Ariya shook her head. "I saw the Dreamcaster, the oldest Aziza. He said things..."

"Like?"

"Like things that seem as if something bad is going to happen. It's the same feeling I had before my parents died. I couldn't even feel it before with my sisters, but it grew stronger towards the end."

"You think something is happening with the House?"

"I don't know."

He pulled her to him and she closed her eyes, losing herself in the safety of his embrace. His skin was cold to the touch, yet still he calmed her. "Tomorrow we'll investigate that feeling."

Jace leaned down to place a soft kiss on her cheek. Slowly he moved down to her neck, licking it, tasting her. Already the marks from his earlier feed had disappeared. Still the spot where he had once left his bite marks warmed under his touch. When they first met, she had feared the thought of him feeding upon her. It had been evil, the stuff of her childhood nightmares and matched the stories of the Asiman, blood-sucking creatures that hunted their people.

But Jace had been nothing like the stories said.

Looking up into his eyes made her heart race even more. His lips rose into a smile and already she saw the elongated canines peeking beneath his lips as she moved toward her. He brushed her tight cinnamon curls from her neck as the sleeves of her dress fell down her arms. His eager hands pulled them down further, baring her full breasts to him. Her chest rose and fell as he cupped them, leaning down to kiss them gently. Kissing her neck again, he pulled the dress further down, carefully moving them around her folded wings.

"What are you doing?" she breathed.

"I think you've been in these clothes for far too long now," he said with a seductive smile. His voice was heavy with need for her. "And I'm hungry."

Ariya giggled softly before she could stop herself. "And I can't be dressed while you eat?"

"Mmm." He growled, leaning in to shower soft kisses all over her neck. "Feeding is as much a visual feast as it is a physical and emotional one for me."

"Oh." A shiver tickled her skin. She wasn't sure if it was Jace's words, Jace himself or the cold air that brushed against her body. Nevertheless, she allowed the soft dress to fall at her feet with a quiet shuffle.

"Ariya," Jace said, stepping back to admire her bare body standing before him.

The sound of her name upon his thick, heavy voice made her quiver. A shot of desire pulsed at the center of her body and she wanted him. She slid the robe off his shoulders and leaned in to kiss his chest, running her tongue along his cold skin.

"Yes," the word fell from his lips in a strained whisper.

Ariya anticipated the feeling of his body melting into hers. She prided herself on being the one and only woman he could feed on with no worries of death's hand taking her away. They had been there to save each other and support one another. He trusted her and she put her life in his hands. All she could do now was give in.

Ariya leaned back as Jace reached up to sink his hands into her hair. "I want you, Jace," she breathed.

A deep groan rumbled in his throat. His gaze was heavy with desire and the hunger to have only her. Slowly he smiled, revealing the prominent set of fangs that would soon invade her body. Jace hissed aloud before enclosing his lips around her skin.

Ariya gasped as sparks of pleasure shot throughout her body. She held him close, wrapping her arms around him as he continued to feed upon her. Her body throbbed, every inch of her screaming to have him.

"Yes, Jace." She threaded her hands into his soft, wavy hair and held him to her. His body jolted, rocking against hers as she lost herself in the pain and pleasure of his bite. The hardness of his desire for her pressed against her hip. Ariya turned, ready to take him within her body. She slid her hands beneath his pajama pants and against his naked hips. Leaning back, she felt the pinch of him sucking upon her and in moments he grew even harder within her grip.

A soft moan escaped his lips as she stroked him, sliding her hips against his.

Quickly he reached down to slide his hand over her thigh and lift it around his waist. He hoisted her up as if she weighed nothing and anchored her on his hips. In seconds, he dove inside of her, filling her completely. He thrust his hips into her, short and shallow yet hard and eager.

Ariya leaned back, her eyes fluttering softly as her body grew hot like fire. Through the thin slits, she saw movement out of the corner of her eye. The door creaked open slightly, but it was as if she were deep in a heavy dream. She couldn't rouse herself to wake in time to stop whoever passed into the room.

"My Queen, the kitchen maid said dinner is ready to be—" The young woman froze as she saw them.

Ariya gasped and quickly reached for her dress to cover herself as she watched the girl's widened eyes fix on Jace. She knew what the girl saw. Jace standing half naked with blood on his lips and teeth. Her blood. A hiss escaped his lips before she had the time to stop him. He was the stuff of both dreams and nightmares.

"Asiman!" The guard reached for the rapier tucked at her side and started toward them. "No, Rasia!" Ariya quickly stepped into her dress. She raised her hands, forming a thin, concentrated shield much like a bubble around her and Jace.

Rasia still held her weapon up. "My Queen, he was—he was drinking from you while you—"

"I know, Rasia." Ariya held the dress over her, regretting that she couldn't reach the back clasps. "Just listen to me."

"He was killing you!"

"No, he wasn't."

"I assure you. I mean no harm." Jace said holding his hand up.

Rasia responded by raising her rapier to him. "My Queen, you must alert the others. You cannot have this...this parasite within the castle walls! What would your parents think?"

The question hit her harder than she expected at that moment. She knew exactly what they would think and say. This was just the perfectly wrong time to mention it.

Jace sensed her thoughts and he moved to step in front of her. "I can make her forget what she saw, Ariya."

Right, he can. But would he do the same to the others who saw him? He couldn't erase the thoughts of the entire realm.

We'll cross that bridge when we face it," he said, passing her. He approached the bubble and placed his open palm on the thin surface. He focused on Rasia, but the girl turned away. "Look at me."

"What are you here for?" The young guard turned away and, in a flash, he appeared before her once again.

"I'm here for the same reason you are," he said, his voice deep and otherworldly as if a thousand voices echoed with his own. "To protect and love your Queen."

Ariya looked up at Jace, wondering if she heard him correctly.

He moved toward Rasia, never letting his gaze drop from hers. She narrowed her gaze at him, turning her head slightly. Perhaps the young guard was just as surprised as he was at his words.

Rasia's grip loosened on her rapier as her hand fell to her side. Her tense stance relaxed as she lost herself in his eyes.

"I think it's safe to lift this shield...bubble...thing," Jace said with a slight wave of his hand.

Ariya slowly broke down each molecule within the shield until there was nothing left.

Rasia slowly walked toward Jace stopping just as her body fell limp into his arms. He lifted her up, crooking his arm under her knees to carry her over to the bed.

Jace grimaced as he slid the rapier her hand and handed it to Ariya. "You should probably put this somewhere before it takes someone's eye out."

As Ariya placed her hand on the rapier, she touched Jace's hand at the same time. Then, she felt it. A bolt of white hot, sharp electricity shot through her body. In milliseconds, she saw images of pain, fire, destruction and voices calling out in anguish. She couldn't see the faces clearly, but the feeling was clear. Members of the Ashen Twilight House.

And they were in trouble.

Jace fell to the floor, clutching his stomach as he leaned over in pain. His chest heaved and the world began to spin before he released a primal scream into the night.

# Continue the Ashen Twilight Series

with

Within the Shadows of Mortals

Worlds collide as the Ashen Twilight House moves west for a new beginning.

Aziza Faerie Ariya must choose between her love for Nightwalker Prince Jace Archane and ruling the devastated faerie kingdom.

Meanwhile, a group of mysterious hunters begin picking off members of the Ashen Twilight House. While darkness looms over the two worlds, Ariya and Jace straddle the thin line between revenge, redemption and renewal.

# Other books by Rae Lori within the series:

A KISS OF ASHEN TWILIGHT (BOOK 1)

WITHIN THE SHADOWS OF MORTALS (BOOK 2)

INHERITANCE OF ASHES (BOOK 3)

DARK DAYS PAST: AN ASHEN TWILIGHT COMPENDIUM

––––––––

Sign up for new releases, freebies, announcements and fun exclusive reader goodies at Rae's newsletter here: <http://eepurl.com/iyu1A>

For more information on Rae Lori and her books, visit:

Website: <http://www.raelori.com>

Blog: <http://raelori.blogspot.com>

Facebook: <http://www.facebook.com/RaeLori>

Twitter: <http://twitter.com/RaeLori>

Upon a Tide of Wintry Morn

An Ashen Twilight Short & Sampler

Rae Lori

––––––––

Copyright © 2009, 2015 by Rae Lori

All rights reserved. 

# About the Author

Tales of Romance-Adventure-Suspense

Rae Lori is a multi-published award winning author and a geek girl at heart. She was first bitten by the writing bug at ten and never stopped loving the written word. Over a twenty year plus writing career, she has been published with various zines, journals and publishing companies and taught new writers the craft of novel writing in between her projects. She has won various awards including an Honorable Mention in the 73rd Annual Writer's Digest Writing Competition, the 2011 ForeWord Book of the Year Gold Award Winner in Writing (Adult Nonfiction) and Best Romance Novella in SORMAG's 2009 Reader's Choice Awards.

Rae can usually be found with her head in the clouds daydreaming of her next story. That is, when she isn't gaming or watching her fave movies with her fellow geekazoid husband (it's time for another Aliens rewatch!), crocheting, or has her nose in a book.

––––––––

Learn more about her work at: <http://www.raelori.com>

––––––––

Rae loves to hear from her readers so feel free to drop her a message! Rachel@raelori.com
