 
# Breaking Free from Victim Mentality

#### Mike Connell

 Sermon Audio Transcripts

#### Smashwords Edition

#### Copyright 2012 Mike Connell Ministries

####

#### http://mikeconnellministries.com

Sermons | Collections | 中国

YouTube | Vimeo | Podcast

eBooks | Paperbacks

Transcripts | 成绩单

Facebook | Share

Donations

# Breaking Free from Victim Mentality

Victim mentality is a way of viewing yourself, and a way of viewing life, that causes you continually to fail in relationships and life.

The person will not take responsibility. Instead they choose to make excuses for why life is like it is, and to find someone or something to blame.

When you blame someone, you leave yourself powerless, and resentful at how life sucks. This is a way of thinking, it's an internal choice in your heart.

You can be a Christian with victim mentality, and no matter how much preaching you get, you never break out or change your patterns. We need to identify and change these heart beliefs, so we can unlock the potential and fulfil the destiny that God has for us.

Victim Mentality (1 of 2)  
Victim Mentality is a way of viewing yourself, and viewing life, that causes you continually to fail in relationships and life. You can be a Christian with victim mentality, and never break out or change your patterns. I'm very concerned about the patterns of lifestyle, the patterns of believing and thinking, that we change them, so we can unlock the potential and fulfil the destiny that God has for us.

Developing a Kingly Mentality (2 of 2)  
Paul had some difficulties: beatings, stonings, shipwrecks. If God was on His side, you'd think that He could have at least told him to catch the right boat, but three times the boat he was on sank. He's there in the water, holding on to pieces of wood. Not nice - but he never, thought like a victim.  
In prison, chained to a Roman soldier, he never, thought like a victim, or as one imprisoned. He said: In all these things we are more than conquerors! Whatever you're facing in your life, believe me, you have got it in you, you are more than a conqueror. Of course if you don't believe that, if you think you're a victim, you're in trouble.

## Audio

Audio: Victim Mentality (1 of 2).mp3  
Audio: Developing a Kingly Mentality (2 of 2).mp3

## Notes

Notes: Victim Mentality (1 of 2)  
Notes: Developing a Kingly Mentality (2 of 2)

# Victim Mentality (1 of 2)

## Sun 5 Dec 2010 AM « Back to Top

Notes» Audio» Website»

Victim Mentality is a way of viewing yourself, and viewing life, that causes you continually to fail in relationships and life. You can be a Christian with victim mentality, and never break out or change your patterns. I'm very concerned about the patterns of lifestyle, the patterns of believing and thinking, that we change them, so we can unlock the potential and fulfil the destiny that God has for us.

I want you to look with me in Romans, Chapter 8. Last time I was up preaching I just shared with you about slave or son [Kings Arise series], and we've touched on the whole area of an orphan spirit; we touched on the area of God's desire for us to be sons, and there's a lot of that found in Romans, Chapter 8. So I want to read first of all from Verse 34, and today I want to just talk about how to break out of victim mentality, how to break out of victim mentality. I've read on the Internet and searched around, found there's a lot of secular material on it, and it's very helpful. Much of it's very helpful in identifying victim mentality.

It's a widespread phenomenon that's absolutely devastating, devastating to relationships. People who have this mentality cannot succeed in forming emotional intimacy in relationships, so many times people suffer in their relationship and have got no idea why. They just put up with something less than what God intended, but every one of us has a yearning for intimacy, every one of us has a yearning for something close in the area of relationships. So notice here - so victim mentality as we'll see in a moment, I'll define it - is a way of viewing yourself, and a way of viewing life, that causes you continually to fail in relationships and life. You can be a Christian with victim mentality, and you would live your life in such a way that no matter how much preaching you get, you never break out or change your patterns. I'm very concerned about the patterns of lifestyle, the patterns of believing and thinking, that we change them, so we can unlock the potential and fulfil the destiny that God has for us.

But notice this in these verses, Verse 34: Who is it that condemns us? Is it Christ who died, and has also risen, and at the right hand of God who's making intercession for us. Obviously not, He doesn't condemn us - so then, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril or sword? Now that's a lot of difficult, challenging situations. Now you may have had a few of those of course, tribulation, tremendous pressure, financially, relationships and so on, distress, persecution - I doubt it but you might have had some; famine - I doubt it. Everyone looks well fed; nakedness - oh I don't see any of that around; peril - well maybe there's some of that; the sword - well, who knows what goes on, you know? There it is - as it's written: For Your sake we are killed all day long; We are counted as sheep to the slaughter.

Now you notice he's describing a number of extremely painful experiences the church were having. Now - notice what he says - but in all of these things, we are more than conquerors through Christ Jesus, who loves us! Now that's not a victim mentality. What he's saying is, the early church suffered persecution, were victimised, hunted down, treated like criminals, were put on display, and fought with animals and destroyed by animals. Nevertheless, he says we are - actually we're not just conquerors. We're 'more than' - see? More than conquerors. That means we gain decisive victories in life. That means we vanquish totally the things that come against us. It means a surpassing victory, whatever situation we are in. Now that's the kind of life that Christ died for us to have - surpassing victories. I can see that's going down really flat. [Laughter] It's not resonating yet, because often our experience - this is what happens, the moment you hear a verse like that, of surpassing victories. Inside your heart measures up my life experience against that scripture, and concludes something is wrong here, between what I experience and what this is saying.

But the life Jesus called us to, is a life of being a victor, of being victorious. Does that mean everything looks good? No, sometimes it looks as though we're terribly defeated and in difficulty, for example the early martyrs, and people right down through history who gave their life for Christ. Were they victors? Yes, they were. Why? Because in the face of opposition, they never quit. They stood up for what they believed in, and that was a victory. Some conquered nations, so the Book of Hebrews is full of people who by faith won victories, victories over lions, victories over enemies, victories of all kinds. The Bible abounds with people who dared to believe God, and broke through - but for most of us the difficulties we face are far more mundane, far more subtle. They creep up on us, and they're difficulties and challenges around family and marriage and finance and relationships, the economic climate and business and so on. But in all of these, God says we can have victory.

Does it mean it'll always work out good? No, it may not work out so good. Sometimes we go through very difficult times, but God uses it all to work about a great good, so we can have a positive and a strong attitude. So victim mentality is a way of seeing yourself, and a way of looking at life. A victim mentality is a mindset, and a heart belief system. If it was just the way you think, it would be easy to deal with. In fact you could go on the Internet and find some keys that are very, very helpful. However it's deeper than that, it goes right into the heart. So a victim mentality has to do with heart beliefs, and ways of thinking that continually sabotage your life and relationships - and we'll give you a few keys so you can recognise it quite soon. The essence - a victim is a person who was abused or hurt or oppressed, and has no power to do anything to change that. They are the victim of it.

A victim mentality is when a person has a mindset, a certain way of thinking, where they refuse to take responsibility for their life and their emotions and what they're going through, and instead they put the blame on someone else. They put it somewhere else, so it's a way of interpreting how people come across, what to make of life, what to make of relationships. So as a man thinks in his heart, so he is, so there are some examples of it of course, and I want to move through this quickly so we get to solutions, but do you remember in Exodus, Chapter 15 - let's have a brief look there in Exodus 15. The people of Israel had been in slavery for 400 years. Now they had been delivered, they are no longer slaves. Although they're physically no longer a slave, although physically they are free, in their mind they still think like a slave, so - Verse 23 - they came to Marah - which means bitter - and they couldn't drink of the waters of Marah because they were bitter, so they called the name Marah, bitter.

And the people - now here's what they did. Notice instead of looking for a solution, instead of reaching out positively to God in expectation of a solution, the bitterness of their victim state rose up, and you notice what they did, one of the first evidences of victim mentality, is they complained. Complaining puts you fair and square in the mentality of a victim. When people complain, they are just pouring out their grievance, injustice, and hurt, and not taking responsibility they could do something about this situation. Sometimes it's easier to complain, than to look what could I do about this? What are my options? So they said what'll we drink? They complained against Moses. Usually when people have a victim mentality, they find a way to blame someone who is over them, a parent, a boss, a teacher, someone in authority anywhere, in their workplace. So when you hear people bitterly complaining, you know they're infected with this kind of mentality. It brings disaster on people. As a result of their complaining, Israel failed to enter their inheritance, a lesson for us, if we don't shift mentality, we cannot enter all the good things that God has planned for us.

So the remedy, notice what the remedy is, and I won't go into it in this session. The remedy is, God showed Moses a tree. Now clearly there's a lot of prophetic symbolism in that, but essentially God showed him a tree, that when he put it in the water, the bitter became sweet. It's an amazing picture of God, the solution to victim mentality is a revelation of God's love and the healing power of the cross. It's interesting the first thing that they came across flushed up their victim mentality, and the first thing that came up is associated with bitterness. When people have been hurt, abused, suffered, experienced injustice, pain, grief and various things, they often instead of resolving it, become bitter. Bitterness reflects in complaining, and so there's a remedy, and the remedy is revelation, revelation I'm not a victim. I have a Father who loves me! I have a Father who's got the answer for every situation! I've got a Father who can show me what He accomplished at Calvary, and I can respond in faith and be delivered and healed and restored, and develop a positive mentality, and experience resurrection life.

We'll give you a few simple things on that afterwards - but isn't that amazing? That's the first experience they had, and it was to bring to the surface their victim mentality. Now the other one we looked at was this. It's found in Luke 15, and this is the elder brother, the Elder Brother Mentality. Now of course there are a lot of Christians who are an elder brother. You could be a sister, and still be an older brother. The older brother is this story. Now this is the story, we'll just quickly cap on it, then I want to show you some solutions.

You remember Jesus is talking to the Pharisees. They have challenged Him, and their challenge they gave Him, in Verse 1, is this: You eat with the wrong people. You're eating with sinners, You're eating with prostitutes, You're eating with all kinds of BAD people, and you're making them all Your friends. They like You, they gather around wherever You come. You've always got a riff raff, a rabbly crowd of broken people. If You were a man of God, You wouldn't do such a thing - so they were critical of Him. Jesus then told the three stories; first one reveals the work of Jesus, the shepherd; second, of the Holy Spirit; the third, of the father. So these three stories are all one story, to show God values people and loves them. The last story is the story of the father, and the father had two sons - you know the prodigal son, and he said: dad, I don't want to live with you. I want to be out, give me the money. In other words, before you're dead, give me the money, I want my inheritance now.

He went out. You know he had a bad life, a rotten life. He blew it all, and then he came to his senses, turned around and he went back to his father with a repentant heart, and when he did that he was welcomed. No matter how much he stunk of the pigs and smelt and was broken and wrecked his life, God loved him. This is the heart of God. He loves people. You say well I've got to get my life right, before God will accept me. No! The story absolutely blows that. That's a religious mindset. God says: I take you like you are! If you can receive My love, and connect with Me, I can pick you up and journey you to where you need to be. It was God, it was the father who restored the son. It's the father who put clothes on him, the father who gave him authority. It was the father's extravagant love. We need revelation of his extravagant love.

Now of course the elder brother came in from the field, and he said: what's this party going on? Now isn't it interesting that associated with people's lives being changed, heaven celebrates, heaven parties! Churches need to celebrate. We need to have laughter and fun, and perhaps move the chairs, and get rid of all the chairs and get you to run around and jump up and down and celebrate a bit more. It's very healthy to celebrate. Sitting in pews is not healthy really - about one or two hours and that's it, you're done for a week pretty well. But God wants us to celebrate, and so you notice here, he had a great celebration. Now this is what the boy did. Now notice what he did. Now he portrays a victim mentality, notice what he does. Here it is - he said: he was angry. He was angry, and notice what he did, he isolated, pulled away from relationship, pulled away from his father, pulled away from celebration, pulled away from connection.

Then it says this: his father came and he pleaded with him. He pleaded with him. In other words his pa entreated him to shift his heart attitude, and open his heart and welcome his brother back in, and of course the boy said - you're familiar with it - oh! I've been here all these years serving you. I never did anything like he did. You never gave me any of my goats, I could have fun with my friends and a party with my friends. As soon as this son of yours comes, devoured his livelihood with the prostitutes, you killed the fatted calf for him. What kind of father are you? What kind of justice is this? And he said: son, you are always with me, and everything I have is yours. How come I haven't got the fatted calf? Simply this, you've got a bad attitude. You haven't got an attitude that can receive a fatted calf. You're in the house, but you're not receiving what God wanted for you. Why is that?

He was in the house. Come on, we'll just get - let me just - he was in the church! He was among God's family, and he couldn't access what he wanted, because of the way he thought. He had a victim mentality, and it's amazing the way it showed up. Interestingly enough, he substituted works for relationship. He just worked hard for his father, but never knew his father. He had no emotional relationship with his father, and had no understanding of his father's heart. That's what his problem was. He substituted for relationship, being good and working hard. Lots of people do that to be loved. He developed a victim mentality in many areas of his life. When we substitute works for relationship, we are convinced we're right, and we can't receive the things we want to receive from God.

I very much have had to wrestle with this myself. When I grew up I was emotionally quite disconnected, a major effect on my life from quite young, so the way I dealt with it, instead of connecting I isolated ,just like this older brother did. What I did was go into a world of fantasy reading books, and here's the other thing, working hard. I got the diligence prize every school I went to. Why did I get the diligence prize? Because I worked hard. Why were you working hard? Oh, I want you to ask me that. I might have to look at what motivated me to work hard. Actually I was trying to find approval and love, that I didn't feel I had, and so I had a wrong belief inside me that went something like this: If I just work hard enough, I'll be noticed and approved and loved - and would you believe it, there was another belief in there as well: I'm unlovable. So no matter how hard I work, I'm never going to get the love I want. Isn't that amazing?

So year after year I work, work, work, work, work, work, work and I never had the emotional connection with my father that I was longing for, and I hoped would come with the work, because here's what had happened. When I thought I'd done really well, he would look at what was wrong, and see it could be better. What it does is it increases the pain, and then leads you to view life in a certain way. Now here's a question to ask - so of course the thing is, as I've journeyed I've had to try and deal with this stuff, and here's the thing that's interesting. When I became a Christian, it didn't change. I wish it had. It didn't change. It just changed form, got very busy serving God. Same driving mentality: I'm unlovable, if I just do enough, God will love me. Did I know God loved me? I had it in my head, but the problem is, it's not in your head that it counts, it's in your heart. If your heart is programmed with I'm unlovable, you will remain a victim, and you'll always look and see all the reasons why things don't work out. You'll have every kind of excuse, every kind of reason. You'll blame everyone and this and that, even blame the devil. The devil will be the persecutor, Jesus is going to be the rescuer. You have a whole victim cycle operating in your life, and you don't learn to grow and become a son, who learns how to partner with God in life.

This is what God's wanting the church to grow up to our son-ship, so we learn how to partner with God in life, so the temptation is then - and particularly if you're in a prophetic flow - is to wait for God to tell you everything, and you just do what God tells you to do, when God wants you to grow in wisdom and intimacy with Him as the source of wisdom, so you'll learn not to run everything off prophetic flow, but to balance prophetic flow with wisdom and how to make life work. Ooh, you probably know someone like that, and I was like that. For me, to tell the truth, it's been a journey to get rid of all of that stuff. I've had some decisive moments in my Christian life, where I encountered the love of God as a Father, and major changes took place in my heart.

I can remember one time just weeping for two hours as I experienced His love in my office, and felt the touch of God as a Father for the first time. It's tangible, it's real, you can experience it, and when you do, it changes you. Now I'm ready for another dose. I believe God's got much more, so I'm positioning my heart for more - so victim mentality sabotages everything, and here's how it sabotages it. Because the thinking is: I'm the victim, it's not my fault you know. It's not my fault, it's someone else's fault, I'm right! That's the way a victim will think, I'm right, and I'd rather be right than have a relationship, so I'll be right and I'll have a breach, rather than actually be vulnerable and declare maybe I'm not right, and even if I am I really want relationship. So victims view life through someone else is the cause of their problems, and so they're the victim. The second thing is, a victim has to blame someone, so a victim says: you're my persecutor, it's you. You did this to me. You're doing this to me. It was that boss of mine did it - and so victims always have got someone to blame.

You can listen and it won't take long, and they'll find someone to blame. Israel began to blame Moses, but they were really blaming God. The elder brother began to blame the father - notice his language is a little careful, but at the end there it is: this son of yours, and you gave him all this money. He's wasted the money, spent it on prostitutes would you believe, and now you have a party. Hey, what's up with you? So he sees the father as being the source of his trouble, so a person who has a victim mentality will have two other groups of people in the world; one are people to blame, persecutors, people who're against him - they're agin me. Now of course church gets that, and they get to start to think like the world's agin me. No, the world isn't agin me; the world's lost, the world needs us. The world's not against us. Come on, start to think right. We have the answer for the world. We're the light of the world. The world needs us.

So the other thing that a victim has is a rescuer. They must have a rescuer. Someone has to come and help me out of this mess. I need you to come through, won't you help me? Then when I've manipulated you into helping me, then I turn to someone else who'll meet the next level of need. So what happens is relationships become extremely unhealthy. Victims cannot develop an emotional closeness with anyone, and this of course - you'll have a look in this thing tonight - is one of the key things. There's no possibility that relationship could work. It's doomed from the start, because of the nature of it - so victims, it's easier to play a victim than to be responsible, so here's some simple steps to get out of it.

So I want to share with you some simple keys, and it's a journey. I wish I could just say we could get you up in an altar call and pray, we could fix it all up. It would be wonderful if we could do it. We can pray and break some things over your life. We can pray and impart some things into your life. We can lay hands and let you experience the flow of God's love, but essentially the journey out of victim-hood, is a journey of opening your heart to become vulnerable, and to experience God's love, and to change. It's a path of being vulnerable, instead of building walls. The evidence that you have passed from death to life, is in your capacity to love, and celebrate, and embrace people. Any time you draw back from people, your love is growing cold. The issue is one of love. Oh, well you don't understand what they did. No, no, no, no, actually I'm not worried about what they did. The issue is your love is growing cold. Take ownership what's happening in you, as you are isolating and withdrawing.

Okay, let's give you a few simple steps. The first thing is to become aware of the pattern, become aware of the pattern. If we're not aware of the pattern - so here's a few things you could think about. Here's a few questions you could ask yourself, and just as I go through these things I know you'll think of someone who's just like this, and they really need help. Actually you'd be the one to help them. You could become their rescuer, then when you don't come through for them, they'll turn on you, see? We have to - actually Jesus is the only saviour. He is the only saviour. He's the only one who can save people, so we have to lead people to Him, because in Him they find the love of God. In Him they find healing. In Him they find deliverance, in Him they find all they need - not enough, so we can give a little bit. Okay, here it is: number one, become aware of the thinking patterns, so let me ask you a few questions. Just tick these off, just perhaps it might be you.

Do you have patterns in your relationships where they turn and go ugly? Do you have a history of hurting people, or being hurt yourself? I'm hurt, I seem to get so hurt in relationships - ooh oh, you've got a problem inside you. Okay then - do you blame yourself, or blame others? Do you find you've got a blame thing going on in your life? That usually means a victim mentality. Do you find you're often frustrated, angry, resentful? You've probably got a victim mentality, and are not recognising you're operating out of: I'm powerless, I have no choices, when you really do. Do you feel smothered, or have you felt smothered and unimportant in your family life? Usually what that means is, you bury your feelings, bury your opinions, bury your desires, and you just do what you're told, and inside you believe you're powerless. It follows you all through life - it's one of the biggest things I've had to come to face.

What about some childhood experiences? Have you grown up with yelling and abuse in the home, and you've learnt to yell, and people have yelled at you? It's almost certain you'll have a victim mentality going on in your life. If there's been sexual abuse, or physical or verbal abuse, if there's been rejection or abandonment in your background; all of these things - or even a life-threatening emotional trauma - all of these things, the emotions associated with it, cause people to come to a conclusion, and it's that conclusion they reach, and how they handle it, is what determines what goes on next. So a person who sees, say a marriage breaks up, and the child's at the age of five, he interprets it as terrible pain, a lot of pain. He interprets it: this means I'm unlovable. Dad has abandoned/rejected me. People are going to reject me. Now once that's locked into a person's heart, their life will begin to cycle around that trauma, around that belief system, and believe it or not, it just keeps happening and happening and happening and happening and happening and happening. They pray and they ask God to bless them, but the cycle keeps happening and happening and happening, because it's rooted in the heart in bitterness, emotional trauma, grief and judgements made about fathers or about men.

I have seen this. Lyn would have seen this, Cecelia, all the people who counsel have seen this happen, and so there's a need to understand that the patterns often were formed in trauma or events when we're very young, so have a think about some of that. Here's the second thing is, that once we become aware man, I do behave a bit like a victim, I tend to blame others and don't take responsibility. I'm not willing to face up to things in my life and get proper ownership of it, and look at choices, and actually I don't really do too close in relationships. Men don't do that you know? Men are pretty tough, you don't get close, that's sissy stuff for girls. Now all that kind of nonsense - that's all it is. It's just a lame excuse for the real brokenness and inability to be intimate.

So how do we get free? Number one, just become aware there's a problem. That's the biggest thing. Second is to take decision I'm going to own it and start to change. You've got to own it: It's my stuff, I've got to deal with it. There's no freedom unless I make a decision: it's my stuff. You can blame people for all your life, but until the day you say: I've got stuff, it's time for me to face up and get to own my stuff, you can't change. You can come to church as much as you like, pray as hard as you like. Until you own I've got stuff, you don't change. You've got to say man, I've got some things to face. It's why we run these courses, restoration, deliverance, freedom, and various kinds of other courses. They're to help you own your stuff, start to think about how you think, start to begin to look at your belief system, how you work with finances and so on, how you work with relationships.

So you've got to own your stuff, so what is it that I feel? What is it I really believe in my heart? What issues have I got that I've never faced? Is there someone I avoid, or I have a reaction to when I'm with him, or shut down when I'm with him? You know, you start to ask that question, you're going to start to get insight where the problems are. The third thing, ask the Holy Ghost. Ask the spirit of God to help you to uncover what lies there. Sometimes you need to talk to someone, and they'll help get you - Lyn is like a razor when she does it. She goes straight down prophetically and [makes a sobbing sound] before you know it your tears have come. You're determined you weren't going to go there and cry - then you cry. Why are you crying? Because you've blocked off from your heart the true issues of your heart, and the moment someone puts a word on it, or puts the truth into it, immediately the pain will surface. We don't need to be afraid of pain or isolate from pain, or just go into our own world or medicate the pain. We need to recognise pain is part of life. There's a place of healing, connected to people and connected to God, where we can actually resolve it, through talking about it, releasing forgiveness, repenting of our reactions.

What do I need to do? I need to yield to the Holy Ghost's direction. How many of you have felt the Holy Ghost talking to you about something, about a relationship, about an attitude, about something that keeps happening in your life, but you kept pushing it aside? He was trying to help you face something that's holding you back. Oh but it's just too painful, I don't want to go there. Well okay, don't go there, but you're going to cycle through the problems until you do go there. Going there means having the courage to face your pain, bring it to the open in relationship with someone or with God, and then get to grips with what you need to solve, whether it be a bitterness, whether it be unforgiveness, whether it be some judgement. Whatever it is, God wants to heal you. He loves you. He went out to get the older boy and bring him back in. How come the older boy didn't get into the party? His own attitudes kept him out. He would rather be right in his own mind, than enter relationship and celebration. He would rather stay in a place of anger and resentment, than to move out of that into party time in the father's house!

That's what God has in mind - party time in the Father's house, where people are filled with His love, filled with the extravagant love of the Father - but you've got to open your life for that. So yield to the Holy Ghost. He'll tell you what to do, and then it may be that you've got to spend a bit of time renewing how you think, and how you act. We'll teach some things on that next year, how you think in relationships, how you interpret life, when you feel something, what am I feeling? Where's it come from? What do I believe? What does God's word say? It takes time to reprogram your thinking, but you can do it with the word of God. The truth is you're loved, truth is you're accepted, truth is nothing can separate you from the love of God. Now let me just show you something, and I'll finish with this.

When you go through adversity, affliction, difficulty or pain, the first thing you feel is unloved, and what comes out of your heart is what's in there. If you believe you're unlovable, then you'll struggle with the pain and isolate, but God loves us, and when we're in pain and difficulty, He wants us to come near to Him, and near to one another, not run away. If we can start to change those patterns, God's going to bring such a river to here, right now there's a river flowing through the church, to heal hearts, to heal broken relationships, particularly men. I want to tell you now there is a river flowing. It's been flowing for some months now, and it's been touching man after man after man, to heal broken hearts, restore lives, and start men connecting in a different way. That's why we're having this breakfast coming up. It's to start talking about that journey that men need to make, to move out of isolation and into being connected and whole.

In this last few months God has moved in the church. You just ask Lyn, man after man has come and broken down in a presence, weeping as God has put the finger on the issues that block relationship. I've been facing and experiencing these things happening. I've had people come to me, same thing; men weeping as God touches their heart. This is a time in the house of God, when God is doing something fresh to connect us. The biggest reason people are disconnected is this: we've got blocks in the heart from being able to love, and we need a revelation of God's love, and a removal of the blocks. God doesn't want you to think like a victim! He says no matter what happens, so someone messed you around and betrayed you? Oh, we're more than conquerors through Christ Jesus who loved us - and notice it's not self-help stuff. We're conquerors through Him, through a person, through a person who loves us, a loving person see?

And so someone rips you off, someone hurts you, someone betrays you, yeah, we're more than conquerors through this Jesus Christ, we have access to this person who loves us, who reveals the Father's love. We have access to Him, oh, we're going to be turning to Him, we're going to open up to His love. The riches of His love will grow in our life, and we'll become overcomers in a greater way! You don't have to stay in a place of defeat all the time. Why should you? You're not called to that. God has brought you out of the bondage of slavery to fear, and into knowing Him as a Father, into His wonderful and glorious life. Who would turn away from that? Who would prefer to stay like the older brother in the house, bitter, resentful, angry, twisted, unloving, cold, unable to connect with the JOY of what God is doing in other's lives? Ooh, don't stay there. Those were the religious people, the Pharisees of the day.

Jesus said: this is a day of great rejoicing, when there are two groups of people, those who don't know Him are coming to know the Father's love, be restored, and it's time to celebrate, and there are those who are in the house, who don't know the Father's love, coming to be restored, and together celebrating the goodness and love of God. What a great God we serve, Amen. [Amen] Why don't we give Him a clap right now? [Applause]

Father, we thank You for Your amazing love, where with You have loved us, and given Your Son, and hold nothing back from us. Father, we open our hearts here - just close your eyes for one, two more minutes. I wonder is there any person here who's not yet received Jesus Christ, and positioned yourself, opened your heart to have your sins forgiven, and receive a flow of the love of God from heaven. Well this is your day to do it. This is a great day to do it. Jesus said: to everyone who received Him, He gave power to become a child of God. Is that you today? Why don't you put your hand up and say Pastor, I'm going to give my life to Jesus today? Perhaps you may have fallen away from the Lord, you say I need to come back to Him today, I've got lots of other things in my heart. That fire is no longer burning.

Perhaps today God has spoken to some of you about isolation and distance. You may not have understood all I said, but when I talked about being isolated, and working hard but never feeling you're good enough or making it, something registered with you; just raise your hand, say that's me. God bless, many hands. When I began to talk about thinking like a victim, and it's not my fault, always someone else's fault, and when someone tries to help you and adjust you, you just react to them and say: you're attacking me. Why are you attacking me, why are you putting me down? And all they're trying to do is help you see something you can't see. If that's you, you've got troubles. Why don't you say: God, You're speaking to me today? That's right, God bless, God bless.

Father, I just thank You for each person's responded today, there would come a revelation, a river of Your love to bring healing, restoration. Father, we want to live in the love of God. Whatever our circumstance, whatever's happening, we open our heart for an increasing awareness of Your love. I can feel His presence just coming upon us right now. I could feel it from the beginning of the service. Just lift your hands, open your heart, just do something, say Father, I receive Your love. I receive Your love. Whatever blocks me from receiving more, show me, show me. I want to journey into intimacy with You, knowing You, experiencing You, becoming secure so I can actually represent You well. I don't want to be dysfunctional in my relationships, blaming, accusing, reacting. I want to be whole. Lord, I receive Your love. I can feel His presence and love here right now.

Musicians are just going to sing that song they're doing now. What I'd like you to do is reach out to someone next to you, and let the love that God has given you flow out of your heart into their life. Don't be stiff or awkward, just: can I pray for you? Ask their permission first. If they say no, respect that. It makes it safe for them. If someone doesn't want you to pray that's okay, you don't have to. You need to respect them, but just ask the person: can I pray for you? I'd really love to pray for you and bless you. I want you to know God loves you.

##  **Summary Notes**

Formatted » Back to Top »

1. Introduction

Romans 8:34-39  
"Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us"  
Paul lists a number of different situations but also a decisive outcome.  
"More than conquerors" = to gain a decisive victory; vanquish totally; gain surpassing victory in every situation.  
We are no longer victims to circumstances or tragedies – we are more than conquerors.  
God's love expressed in our heart – the Love of the Father – frees us from victim-hood.

2. Victim Mentality is a Way of Seeing and Relating

Victim is a person who is abused, hurt, or oppressed by another and is unable to break free.  
Victim Mentality is a person who refuses to take responsibility for their life and blames others for what they are experiencing in life.  
A way of thinking and interpreting life that comes from unresolved offences, grief, bitterness and heart beliefs.  
Proverbs 23:7 "As a man thinks in his heart so he is".

· Example of Israel – Slaves in Egypt (victims under a harsh taskmaster)  
Exodus 15:22-25 "The people complained against Moses"  
Their temporary hardship and difficulty caused their bitterness to show.  
They looked for someone to blame.  
The remedy – God revealed His Father's Love that healed their situation.

· Example of the Older Brother – Slaves in the Father's house (slaves to the law)  
· Luke 15:25-31 "He was angry and would not go in"  
· The elder son served – worked hard but had no revelation of the Father's Love.  
· He substituted works for relationship and believed he was right.

· Personal example:  
Emotionally/relationally isolated – (past unresolved).  
Worked hard to gain approval (heart belief).  
Developed "Victim Mentality" in many areas of life.  
Journey of revelation of Father's love and healing.  
Key issues:  
– breaking patterns of isolating in pain and resolving heart pain.

· Elder Brother  
Isolated Blamed Justified self Bitterness  
Closed spirit Judged Wrong beliefs Anger

3. Victim Mentality sabotages Relationships  
"Victims" interpret life/relationships through their heart's bitterness  
(i) I am a victim = not my fault, hurt, I am right, withdraws  
(ii) You are my persecutor = it is your fault, you are against me, attack  
(iii) I need a rescuer = someone must come through for me, meet my needs  
· "Victims" are unable to develop emotional intimacy because they believe they are "unlovable".  
· It is easier to play the role of the victim than to assume responsibility.  
· Note: A person with a victim mentality will play all 3 roles.

4. Steps out of the Victim Mentality

(i) Become Aware of your Thinking/Behaviour

Questions to ask yourself -  
· Patterns of relationships that is ugly?  
· History of hurting or being hurt?  
· Blame self or others often for things going wrong?  
· Frequent feelings of anger?  
· Childhood experiences?  
(i) Yelling  
(ii) Sexual abuse  
(iii) Struggle with feelings, openness, over-ridden  
(iv) Rejection, abandonment, other types of loss  
(v) Life threatening emotional experiences  
· Felt smothered or unimportant in the family.

(ii) Ownership of Pain and Vulnerability  
· There can be no freedom without responsibility  
· What are the feelings? What are the beliefs?  
· What are the expectations?  
· What events in the past have been some of these issues?

(iii) Ask the Holy Spirit to Uncover the Roots  
· Painful experiences that impact and how they relate?  
· Personal reactions – anger, bitterness, judgements?  
· Beliefs, expectations and inner vows formed in the heart.

(iv) Yield to the Holy Spirit's direction on how to resolve them?  
· Personal ministry and counsel?  
· Repentance  
· Forgiveness  
· Renouncing judgements and inner vows

(v) Work on Renewing the Beliefs  
· What is the old belief?  
· What is the truth?  
· Meditate – embrace – confess the truth – ask the Holy Spirit to reveal love.

(vi) Practise Giving and Receiving Love  
· Refuse old patterns of isolating  
· Connect and practise giving and receiving love  
· Romans 8:14-15

# Developing a Kingly Mentality (2 of 2)

## Sun 12 Dec 2010 « Back to Top

Notes» Audio» Website»

Paul had some difficulties: beatings, stonings, shipwrecks. If God was on His side, you'd think that He could have at least told him to catch the right boat, but three times the boat he was on sank. He's there in the water, holding on to pieces of wood. Not nice - but he never, thought like a victim.

In prison, chained to a Roman soldier, he never, thought like a victim, or as one imprisoned. He said: In all these things we are more than conquerors! Whatever you're facing in your life, believe me, you have got it in you, you are more than a conqueror. Of course if you don't believe that, if you think you're a victim, you're in trouble.

Look with me into Romans, Chapter 8. Last week I was sharing on Breaking Free from a Victim Mentality, and I want to just pick it up because there'll be some who weren't here, and move from there into developing a kingly mentality. No use just breaking out of one thing; you've got to put on something else, and develop a different way of thinking. I'll share with you some things, some practical keys, but I want to just pick up where we were last week. We looked in Romans, Chapter 8 and it says in Verse 34: who is it that condemns? Christ who's died and is risen, is at the right hand of God. He is there making intercession for us right now. He is praying you and I will succeed. Who will separate us from the love of Christ then? Shall tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril or sword?

Verse 37: In all these things, no matter what life dishes up to you, and Paul had a few things dished up; beatings, stonings, shipwrecks. I mean you'd think if God was on His side, you'd think that He could have at least told him to catch the right boat, but he had three times the boat he was on sank. He's there in the water, holding on to pieces of wood. That's not very nice - but he never, never, never, never thought like a victim. There he is and he's in prison, chained to a Roman soldier, but he never, never thought like a victim. He never thought as one imprisoned. He said: no, no, no, no! No, no son. In all these things we are more than conquerors! Whatever you're facing in your life, believe me, you have got it in you, you are more than a conqueror. Of course if you don't believe that, if you think you're a victim, you're in trouble.

But the reality is, the truth of God is, you have got all it takes through Christ. Notice the key thing in there? It says: in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him. It is your vital union with Jesus Christ. It's your connected with Him. He has already won the victory. He has already faced every challenge of life. You and I as we connect with Him can arise with His life. When you put off your struggles and put them on Him, and begin to learn how to draw on His life, you are more than a conqueror. I like that - more than a conqueror. That means to gain decisive victory, to have a surpassing victory in every situation. So whatever you face in life, from the little mundane things in family life, marriage and finance, to work, to major challenges, you have got it in you to win, if you hold on to Jesus Christ. You are designed to win. There's no way God planned your failure.

Can you imagine God planning your failure? It's not what He does. He plans your success. I know the plans I have for you, plans for good, not evil, that you would prosper and be positive and be filled with hope about your future. So let's have a look. I want to just pick up there this aspect of victim mentality. I want to touch on it again, and we're going to go over this time into Numbers, Chapter 13 - going to find two different mentalities in Number 13 and 14. We're going to find a victim mentality, and the way it operates and it's consequence; we're going to find a kingly mentality, how it behaves, how it thinks and acts and we'll talk about how to shift.

So in Numbers, Chapter 13, we'll pick it up there in maybe Verse 25: And they returned from spying out the land after 40 days. That's the 12 spies. Now they departed and they came back to Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the children of Israel in the Wilderness of Paran, at Kadesh; they brought back word to them and to all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. And then they told him and said: we went into the land where you sent us. Truly it flows with milk and honey, and here's the fruit.

Nevertheless the people who dwell in the land are strong; the cities are fortified and very large; we saw the descendants of Anak there, the giant. The Amalekites are in the South; the Hittites, the Hebusites, Amorites and other ites in the mountains; Canaanites by the sea and along the banks of the Jordan. Then Caleb quieted the people - shhh! Let us go up at once and take possession. We're well able to overcome it. But the men who had gone up with him said: we can't. We're not able to go up against the people, they are stronger than we. And they gave the children of Israel a bad report of the land they'd spied out, saying the land through which we've gone as spies is a land that devours its inhabitants, the people we saw are men of great stature. We saw the giants, descendants of Anak which came from the giants, and we were like grasshoppers in our own sight, and so were we in their sight.

Now a victim mentality will steal your Godly inheritance. You have to understand what's at stake here. The promises God holds for your life, the destiny He wrote for your life, the good things He planned to accomplish in and through you, all depend on you adopting an attitude of faith. If you stay in a victim mentality, there is no way you can rise into, and experience, the things God has planned for you. God has planned financial breakthroughs, breakthroughs in your personal life, breakthroughs in relationship. He's planned not just breakthroughs; He's planned breakouts, where you start to influence people, win people, see answers to prayer. However a victim mentality will steal away all the good things that God has planned for you. This is why it is important to shift from a victim mentality to a kingly mentality.

I must shift the way I see life. I must shift in my heart and in my mind, in my words and in my actions. I must make a choice to change. No one makes it for you. No one makes it for you. Wherever you have been, no matter how bad, tragic, no matter what bondage, whatever slavery, whatever problem you have been in, God can use it as a stepping stone to get you up into your destiny, and as He redeems your past, you begin to see how it prepared you for the things you have ahead - but you make the choice.

Now I want you to have a look at this thing; first of all just redefine the victim mentality. A victim mentality is a way of thinking. It's a way you think. It has to do with your thought life. It is a way of looking at life and interpreting it. It is a belief system in the heart, so it's a whole way of thinking and believing, the way you approach your life.

If you are in the secular world, then the motivators would begin to show you how to think differently. As you think differently, they'd say you'd have a different life, which is partly true. Definitely if we think good thoughts, as you'll see shortly, your life will change. So a victim then, a victim mentality is a mentality where the person - now notice this - they will not take responsibility. That's the bottom line. They refuse to assume responsibility. They choose rather to make excuses for why life is like it is and to find someone or something to blame. When you blame someone you put responsibility on them, you remove it from yourself and leave yourself powerless and resentful at how life sucks. This is a way of thinking, it's an internal choice in your heart. Every situation that comes to you, you can approach it as a king or as a victim. No one chooses the response but you. Think about that.

So a victim mentality then is a way - it's blaming others for why I feel like I do: You make me feel so mad. No, I don't make you feel so mad, your feelings are your feelings, they're not my feelings. OWN your feelings. They're YOURS! You can go to the grave with them if you wish, or you could choose to change. You have to understand this is a very, very important thing, because New Zealanders as a whole, there's a widespread victim mentality sits on many people. It's in the culture, but in the culture of the church we want to shift you to have a kingly thinking, where there's nothing in life that isn't too much for you. Amen! Amen! I can see there's resistance going on but that's alright, we're going to keep going there, and I want to share with you something at the end that'll be an insight that'll really help. So let's have a look at Israel, and how they viewed their situations.

I want to do three things; how they viewed their situation, how they responded and then what it cost them. I want to show you how God directly connects their failure to get His promises, to the way they thought and behaved. So you can be in church, saved, redeemed but if we don't make a choice to shift our thinking and believing and living, we actually live substandard, and below what God intended for us. So first of all how they viewed their situation, what their belief system was, how did they see themselves first of all? They see themselves like grasshoppers: I am a grasshopper. It's called an inferiority complex. I am a grasshopper, I'm small, problems are big. That's a belief system. The second thing is how they saw life's challenges, Verse 31 and 33: Oh, the giants in the land are too big for us. Oh, you mean that God allowed something to come into your life that was too big for you to handle, and you weren't ready and prepared to deal with it? Oh really? I thought He was more in control than that. The giants - everything is a giant to a person with a victim mentality. It's a problem they're burdened with.

The next thing is their inheritance, well how they saw the promises of God: Oh ooh! It's a land that devours its inhabitants. There's a lot of problems. Finally, how they saw God - look at this. Look at this. Read in Chapter 14, Verse 3, how they saw God, and here's where the real problem is, how you see God. It says: why has the Lord brought us to this land? We're going to be killed by the sword, and our wives and children - notice this - should become victims. Isn't that amazing? They have lived - wouldn't it be better to go back to Egypt? Where was Egypt? Egypt was the place where they were victims and they were slaves. They'd lived there, they felt like a victim, thought like a slave, and when God got them out and was trying to bring them and prepare them to move from His direct provision into the principles of the kingdom and advancing the kingdom, they resisted and said: God must hate us. He's brought us out here to kill us. We're better to leave Him and go back. Whoa - so how they responded, because of those things they believed - notice the seeds of things they believed, the way they saw themselves, the way they saw life, the way they saw the giants, the promises of God that God Himself - notice what they did.

Here's what they did, how they responded. Read it in Chapter 14: So they lifted up their voices and cried and wept. Number one, self pity, they cried and they went: oh it's not fair, life isn't fair, too tough... They just had whinge. All night they cried. The second thing you notice they did was they blamed, Verse 2: All the children of Israel complained. A complainer is a victim mindset, a complainer, a person who complains, has got a victim mindset. Why? Because he's putting the blame out there, that's why he's complaining: well you did this, you did that, and they're complaining and complaining - now what that is, it's actually putting my life is bad because of what you did, rather than actually I have power to choose what I do with my life; I can grow through the experience and become a better person. I can change my life around, and I can shift what's happening. You notice they complain.

The other thing you notice there is bitterness. There was deep bitterness in their hearts. Notice what they said, Verse 2: If only we'd died! That's a very sad person isn't it, very sad. So they had bitterness in their hearts. They had judgements. Notice they judged God: He's brought us out here to kill us. God's made life so unfair \- and finally you notice they had rejection and unbelief in their hearts, Verse 4: said let's select a leader, and let's go back to where we were, or putting it another way, let's stop following the Holy Ghost. Let's leave church and just go back. We'll go back and start to party again and sing again and go into the pubs and just do what we used to do, it was a lot easier then - but where were you when you were there? You were in slavery. You never found freedom there; you found freedom in Christ, and He's wanting to bring you into great things. He wants you to grow.

So you notice there, God wanted them to change. Victim mentality cost them an inheritance. Look at this, Numbers, Chapter 14, Verse 21 through to Verse 23: Now truly as I live - this is the Lord speaking - all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord. In other words, God's saying: even though Israel failed in it's purpose, I have in the future a generation I will raise up, and they will manifest the glory right through the whole of the earth! Then He says: because these men, now these ones, now He's talking about these ones - because - notice this - they saw my glory. They experienced the glory of God, had glory times, fire - it was visible, tangible. The signs I did in Egypt in the wilderness, they put Me to the test 10 times, and wouldn't believe or obey My voice. They shall not see the land. Notice the word 'because'. They had such opportunity, but did not believe. He said: they can't go in.

Hebrews 3, the last verse says: they failed to experience God's provided provision for them because of unbelief. A spirit of unbelief keeps you out of the supernatural life flow and provisions of God, and it's connected to the way you view life, and view God, and view yourself. It's connected to your heart condition. As a man thinks in his heart, that's how his life goes. Think about that. Now we read it, and mentally we separate ourselves away from these people, and think: that's not us, that's them. But this is written, it says in 1 Corinthians 10, for the church not to make the crazy mistakes and suffer the same consequences. Over the years I have seen many, many believers let go of God, because in the circumstances of life, their heart did not embrace God in His truth. Their heart stayed frozen in the bitterness and judgements and the lies of their past. This is why we have in the church, processes for healing and restoration, because it's vital to shift that junk out of your heart, so you can arise and begin to believe God. You can't build over rubbish. If you want to build a building, you clear it good and put a good foundation down, getting deliverance and healing and changing the belief system of your heart.

Now to change the belief system of your heart is called this, it's called repentance. Repentance. Foundational to the life of God is repentance. Jesus said: repent, the kingdom is at hand. In other words, I have so much to offer you, its right at your doorstep, but to enter it requires repentance, a change of heart view, of heart belief, of heart approach. God has many things for us, but repentance, changing our belief system, is crucial to entering it. It's not about an external performance; it's about the heart welcoming truth, embracing it, and experiencing it. We'll share a few keys on that just shortly.

So you notice there, they were burning with bitterness, resentment, unbelief and judgements. They needed to get their heart clear of it. That's what the wilderness was about. It was about an opportunity to get freed up of the baggage of the past, come into a place of recognising over and over again, God is loving, God can be trusted, God provides. Now I can learn to arise, be responsible, and partner with Him in taking the land. So in your initial Christian experience, God shifts a lot of things out of your life, but then it's to prepare you so you can begin to walk with Him, begin to dream and explore desires, begin to discover your destiny, and begin to flow with Him into fulfilling your destiny. But if you remain stuck in the baggage of the past, then your belief system doesn't come up far enough to get you into what God has. So changing or repenting requires recognising the patterns of thinking and believing. You've got to be aware of it and recognise it first of all, taking responsibility that the root issues are mine, and I'm going to take and embrace the process of change.

It involves resolving grief and anger and bitterness and judgement. You've got to resolve this stuff, or it just keeps operating in your life. It's like a garden with weeds that have never been weeded out. It involves renewing the patterns of thinking, and beginning to start to recognise and confront old patterns when they come back, and making a decision to change. I guarantee you, you change in your thinking and believing, you'll change in the friendships and the people you've got around you. You will, because changing in the heart changes what's outside you.

Okay, now let's have a look at a kingly mentality, and the kingly mentality is found in Caleb. Let's define a kingly mentality, a kingly mentality. That's what God wants us to have, a kingly - so a kingly mentality is a way of thinking. It's a way of thinking like a king would think. It's a way of viewing life like a king would view life. It's a way of interpreting the experiences you have through a kingly dominion mindset. It's a way of thinking, and so we have to change our way of thinking.

So in 1 Corinthians 6, Verse 17 it says: he that's joined to the Lord is one spirit. So a kingly mindset is a way of viewing life, I am joined one spirit with the Lord, God and me are one, and wherever I go God is with me. This is a winning team! God, Almighty God, who never lost a battle in His life, is with me! That's a kingly mentality see? Kingly mentality means I take full responsibility for my personal life, my thoughts, beliefs, emotions, responses, words and actions. No more blame game - you! No more! Kings don't get the blame game going. Kings stand up and own their life, and then govern their life, then govern beyond them. They have influence because they've shifted. Romans 5:17, a person exercises faith to manifest the life of God, so a kingly mentality is something like this. I'm connected to God Almighty, who loves me, is with me, means good for me, and He has called me to represent Him on this earth and to extend His kingdom, so my prayer is: Father, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, they will be done on earth in me and through me just like it is in heaven. That is a kingly mentality. It's a whole way of looking at life, so a challenge comes up; it's an opportunity to bring the life of God to change it.

The life of God changes things. Last night in the park, when we had over 100 people there singing and worshipping and just singing the Christmas carols, but you know what? They released a spiritual atmosphere into the place, so people fell, cried, were touched, their hearts started to turn back and remember God. What is all that about? That's heaven starting to come to earth. It's people joined to God, flowing as one, bringing the life of God out to where people are. It's the most amazing thing - so the example of it is Caleb. Here it is in Numbers 14, Verse 24: But My servant Caleb has a different spirit. He's got a kingly spirit, kingly spirit. He's followed Me fully, I'll bring him into the land where he went and his descendants with him. So whenever you hear the word Caleb, at least three times in the Bible it says: oh, My servant Caleb, who has a different spirit! What God needs is people with a different spirit, not the spirit of the world, complaining and victim and orphaned and alone, but a different spirit, a spirit of the king! The king of kings inside us, a spirit that says: God is with me, and I'm aware of Him, and I can work with Him, and we'll do some things together.

The name Caleb means literally this: Caleb means to be forcible, to have a bit of push and grunt; or it means not to be a sissy and a pushover. [Laughter] So Caleb means no sissy boy here! No pushover here! It also has the meaning to be a dog, like a dog would fiercely attack - so I kind of thought of him being like a Doberman. [Laughter] You imagine yourself being a Doberman, my goodness they're scary dogs aren't they? You look over a gate and see a Doberman, there's no way you're going there. Wouldn't that be right? No way you're going into any place where there's a Doberman. You look there, and their ears go back, and the teeth begin to bare \- you're gone! There's no way you're going to hang around. Now that's what the devil wants to see, is a church full of Dobermans. [Laughter] See? So when they go grrrr grrrrr the devils flee! We're not like that to people, we're like that to the devil see?

This man here was a forcible man, so how did he see his situation? See, what I'm concerned about is more than just his name. His name is prophetic of the type of the person who has a kingly mentality, and arises and gets God's promises, but there's things that he had in his heart. In the Book of Joshua, Chapter 14, he said: I brought word back as was in my heart. When a person shares what's in their heart they're revealing their beliefs, who they really are. They're actually being quite open and transparent. Now I want you to see the contrast of Caleb's heart, and what he really believed, and the heart of the people of Israel. Here it is, let's have a look at Caleb, how did he see God. Look in Numbers, Chapter 14 and Verse 9: And the Lord is with us. See, how did he see God? Almighty God is with us! He didn't see God as being someone far off, distant, uncaring, unloving. The Mighty covenant God, and I'm in covenant with Him. I belong to the tribe of Judah. I belong to a tribe connected to Him! God is with us! What a difference it would make in your life if everywhere you went: GOD IS WITH ME! - Now don't yell that out, they'll think you're nutty, but [Laughter] - well you may want to yell it out but, you know?

But you need to know it experientially on the inside, to feel that truth, God is inside me. Almighty God is with me. Wherever I go, God is with me. I'm not alone in life, I don't have to struggle in life. God, my Father is with me, the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead is in me. Now you see when we get to believe that in our heart, it begins to fill the mind and you begin to talk that way, it just comes out of you. You talk that way. Notice the way he saw himself; Numbers 13, Verse 30: Caleb shut the people up, and said: let us go up, we're well able to overcome it. Notice the way he sees himself? We are well able. He included everyone else, which is quite generous of him. What he's really saying is: I can do this, I can do it, I can do it because God is with me. I can do it. So how did he see himself? He saw he's an over comer.

Do you see yourself that way, or see yourself as a victim? See, no victim mentality here, we can do it, we're over comers. Paul said the same thing: I can do all things through Christ Jesus who strengthens me, Philippians 4:18. See, it's the same thing. Whatever God calls me to do, I can do it through Christ who strengthens me. See, it's the way you see yourself. You're a winner. Tell someone next to you, you're a winner. [You're a winner.] Well no one likes to call themselves a loser do they? I mean imagine if you turned around - see the bubble that comes when you say: you're a winner, but imagine if you turned around and said: you're a loser! Man, you'd probably get a poke on the nose. There'd be slapping, there'd be aggro, there'd be all kinds of stuff go down there.

Hey listen, the devil tells you you're a loser every day of your life, 24 hours of the day. He's always telling you you're a loser. He wants you to believe you're a loser; God wants you to believe you're a winner. You've got to choose who you're going to listen to. You've got to listen to God and what God says: you're a winner! The same spirit that raised Christ from the dead is within you. You must be a winner! That same spirit energises your body. You don't have to be tired when the spirit of God is available to flow through your body. Come on, think about this. See, we choose our attitude when we get out of bed. Ooh, another day, oh no. [Laughter] Oh glory! Another day! It's an effort and a discipline see? How did he see the challenges? So he didn't look like a victim: oh no, giants, this is so bad, what kind of mess am I in now? He didn't look at it like that. This is what he said, Numbers 14, Verse 9: Don't rebel against the Lord, don't fear the people of the land. These giants are bread, their protection has departed from them, and the Lord is with us.

How did he look at Giants? How did he look at giants? He said they're bread for us. Giants are the food of kings. Giants are the food of kings! They're the bread of kings. It's one thing to feed on the bread, the word of God, but there's another bread that gets you strong, and that's feeding on the giants! Feeding on the giants - not fleeing the giants; feeding off the giants. Giants are bread. You see I can feel the unbelief rising straight away. [Laughter] You think well I hear what he's saying, but inside I don't believe that at all. [Laughter] No way. Well okay, you can believe what you choose. I guarantee your giants aren't bread. Your giants actually hurt you, wound you, defeat you consistently, because you don't see them as bread, as part of God's provision to grow godly people, great champions, great kings. Kings have to be grown, they don't just turn up. You sit in church and listen to a message and then you become a king? I don't think so. [Laughter] You've got to be doing something the rest of the week you know, and so when you go out there, God's got a giant for you to face.

Instead of looking, thinking oh how you doing today? Oh ooh... Oh, I see you've got a giant! Oh ho ho! You've got a giant! [Laughter] And you're a grasshopper. I can feel grasshopper emanating out of you! Come on, see? It's the words coming out of your mouth; it reveals what's in your heart - grasshopper or giant slayer? See, Caleb said at 85: you remember that mountain where all the giants were, and the majority of people had a whinge and a whine, and complained and wasted 40 years? I want that mountain with those giants! See it doesn't register does it; see 85 someone asking for a challenge. Most people at 85 just want a rest home, [laughter] someone to wheel them around, take them for an outing, feed them and wipe up the dribble. [Laughter] But we're not like that! [No!] We can remain strong and vibrant through Christ's life within us - but you have to have a mentality like that. I'll show you why in just a moment. Anyway so there it is, giant. Giants are bread.

Notice what he says: Their defence is departed from them. What he's referring to is this. The demonic realm that empowered the giants, and made them look so fierce and gave them such authority, God has already caused it to be broken over their life. That's why you can win the victory. They may look big, but actually their defence is departed from them, their demons are no longer operative. We have something more operative. Now you come to the cross, Colossians 2, and it tells us very clearly now God, Christ has disarmed principalities and powers so you would not fear spirits but rather walk in dominion over them. You've got to believe it though, have to believe the truth, repent of the old stuff, the unbelief that stops you getting the victory. So he saw the challenge as their bread, and notice how he saw the land: it's flowing with milk and honey. Man, have we got a good life ahead. So we ask how's it going? Oh, not too good. How's it going? Man, God is providing challenge after challenge for me to grow, I'm looking forward to the things He's bringing into my life! Bread, milk and honey is ahead for me, milk and honey!

You say oh, but you don't understand, we're in a crisis. There's no crisis in heaven. It's only in your mind and heart. Now I know it's in the physical reality, but God takes people through crises. So how did he respond? So when a person's got this kind of faith in their heart, notice he brought word this was in his heart. The big thing is how he saw God: God is big and great and loves us. He's a covenant God. He's with us. We can't lose. We can't lose - and even a setback is just that, it's a setback. Even a failure's just a setback. We can't lose. We can't lose, because why? Because God said it, and God doesn't lie. See, He's based on the truth. Remember they'd all seen the glory, they'd all seen the miracles, all seen fire. They'd seen all manner of things, but what they needed was faith in their heart - which comes by believing the word and character of God.

They needed to shift and begin to be believers - so what happens next? So how did he respond? Well this is how a person who's got faith in their heart responds, in Numbers 13, Verse 30. He shut up the critical negative talk. Now believe me, if you listen to critical, negative talk, and don't say a word, you're in agreement with it, and the spirit behind it. You've got to understand if you listen to negative, critical talk you have come into agreement with the spirit behind it. What you say and do is important. If someone starts being negative and critical, you need to do what Caleb did, and shut it up! He silenced the people! He refused to dwell among people that were critical and negative. He stopped the negative talk, and spoke into it. That's what faith does, that kind of stuff see? The second thing is, he rejected the negative attitude - Verse 9 of Numbers 14: Don't rebel. Don't fear. Don't get a bad attitude. God is with us.

You've got to realise that negative words and negative attitudes are infectious like a plague. They're like a spiritual disease. If someone had leprosy, or some kind of aids and the sores were everywhere, I can't see you going up there and giving them a hug. You'll just stand back a bit and you'll have a bit of caution going on in there, don't want to catch what you've got. But when someone comes near with negative words and a negative attitude, it's very easy to wrap them in our arms and hug them and love them and get into agreement with it and the spirit behind. He just cut it out completely, and challenged the people to think and believe differently. He rejected the negative attitude, and he boldly declared the word of God. We are well able, God is with us, their defence is departed, they're bread for us. This is it, we can do it.

Now understand, this was his heart, and God says he's got a different spirit, different heart attitude, a kingly dominion heart attitude. You know why the others couldn't go into the land? Because it required faith to inherit the promises, and two men had it. Those two, God said: I'll bring you in, but the others can't come in. Why can't they come in? They haven't got what it will take. They just can't make it. That's why God may have lots of things for you, but if you don't prepare your heart and shift your thinking, you can't make it. We can't make it in there, because it requires faith to access the promises of God. There's got to be a heart belief, so notice he had a big heart belief, and so God says man, this boy I'm bringing in. Not only him, all his family as well. He's got another spirit, a kingly spirit. Okay, so how can we get that kingly heart attitude in us? Let me give you a couple of thoughts, and then we'll finish up.

Battles are won and lost in the mind and heart. The battles of life are won and lost in the minds and the hearts, because the Bible says - Proverbs 23:7 - as a man thinks in his heart so he is. Now that word 'thinks' is an on going present continuous word. In other words, as a man is continually thinking in his heart, then that's how his life is working out. Why? Because of the thoughts, and what thoughts do. I want to share with you something I discovered through a little bit of research just recently. As you continue to think, you are building your life, so your thoughts are building the life you'll have on the earth. Your thoughts are like bricks, and you're putting them in one after another, and so the way we think and view life begins to build into us, and program in us, how we're going to be in the future. You have to understand that.

Now there's been some research done on thoughts, and thinking processes, and here's some interesting things you may not have realised. I don't have a picture I could show you but thoughts are actually can be measured. In other words they occupy space in your head. A thought is not a nothing. See, a thought is something. A memory is something. We don't tend to think that way, but it is something. Now what is it? Well it's actually neurons going through a path. There are chemicals released, and there's some pathways formed in your mind, so there are electrical impulses, neurons, and chemicals released - see for example, if I just got everyone, now it's nearly half past eleven now, so if I got everyone beginning to think about a beautiful lunch - oh, there it is. Chicken, ooh, I can see it now. I can see the gravy on it, all that seasoning, and the potatoes and - oh it's looking good. Now immediately I'm starting to feel hungry. [Laughter] My body - not notice this, I want you to get this - my body and feelings responded to my thoughts. So as I began to think, there was something happened in my body and emotions, same with yours.

If you begin to think about a painful experience for a little bit, and you begin to remember that experience, begin to imagine it and picture it, very soon there'll be feelings come, emotions will come, and you'll begin to enter into that experience - sometimes tears come. I found one certain piece of music I just played the other day, as I played the music, I found tears come. I thought that's strange. The music is triggering off thoughts, and they're connected to emotions. Because I've got emotions, I must have thoughts; I wonder what they are? So they're all interconnected. Now here's the interesting thing. They've been able to study the brain, and here's the interesting thing that happens. When you think, thinking involves electrical impulses, neurons connect, and you form like a tree in your brain.

Can you imagine a tree with lots of branches? Now the more you repeat certain kinds of thinking, the bigger the tree grows in your brain \- so if you begin to think say, negative thoughts about yourself, and continually repeat them, there grows like a tree in your brain, of neurons connected to one another, and the connections grow thicker and stronger and deeper. It becomes set in your brain. So a person for example who continually looks at pornography begins to develop in his brain memories or trees, neuron trees, which grow thicker and thicker and thicker, and there are paths. It triggers off chemistry in their body. That's how God has designed us, it's a physical thing - and so God designed us. Now here's the thing. If a person begins to change how they think, they've observed on the electron microscope, that the trees that hold the memory or the patterns of thinking begin to shrink and dissipate, and if you stop thinking those thoughts they eventually vanish, as though they were never there. Isn't that amazing? They've discovered that in science. I was reading it in a book recently.

If you start to develop different ways of thinking, then new neuron paths form up, and new trees begin to form within your brain - so imagine that, that within your brain are registered the ways you've thought all your life. If you will stop thinking certain ways, and begin to develop new thoughts, there will be new neuron paths formed, new connections formed, and old ones will wither and die away. Think about that. Isn't it amazing? Now here's the thing about those thoughts. They are connected to emotions, so if your thoughts are negative, you unlock bad chemistry in your body; it affects your DNA and your health. So our body is not wired to cope with things like bitterness, judgements, resentments, self pity, unforgiveness. All those toxic thoughts create memory trees, neuron trees in your mind, that every time you go there they get stronger, and they unlock toxins in your body. Think about that - so what is very true is this: You can be transformed totally, as you will renovate your mind.

You'll be transformed totally by the renovation of your mind. Now I wish I could have you come up and lay hands on you, and renovate your mind [laughter] but as you all know with renovation, you've got to remove and strip out the whole room, everything that's in there, and systematically replace it with something else, systematically replace it with something else. What we have to do is called renewing of the mind, and Joshua was commended to do it before he went into the land. One of the biggest instructions God gave him is this: meditate, ponder, picture, imagine, get into the feelings of My word, so My word begins to build neuron trees and begins to shape the way you think. Declare My word, because that'll reinforce it in your life. Begin to act on My word - notice what He says - you will make your own way to prosper. In other words prosperity outside us, begins with change inside us.

Kingly manifestations outside, begin with kingly thinking on the inside, and no one can do it except you - so that requires these sorts of things, becoming aware of how you think. In other words, notice what you feel, because behind a feeling is a thought, or a belief. Evaluate it, judge it. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 10:5, bringing every thought and every imagination into captivity, these things that exalt themselves against knowing God. So many of us are limited in our experiences and knowledge of God, because we have thoughts that resist and oppose and continually frustrate God's revelation flowing into our life. Renew the mind and it begins to change. How do we do it? We need to picture, imagine the truth, see the truth, begin to imagine what that feels like, the truth: God is in me. When Clark was here he shared a brilliant message, just of what it took for him to meditate that Almighty God was in him. This God that made creation in me, every day meditating on it, so wherever he went he could minister the power of God, because he felt immediately the presence of God with him.

Meditate, ponder, imagine, picture, begin to let it affect your feelings, begin to speak it and embrace it, declare it over your life, begin to live out and act according to it, and you'll begin to find old memory patterns start to shift, new memory patterns start to form, and your life begins to change. I've determined in this coming year to work on some different areas of change. What about you?

Let's just close our eyes right now. The core of it is repentance, a change of mind and a change of heart, and that's where every one of us stands today. If we want to see more of the kingdom of God in our life, let's turn from old, unproductive thinking. Abandon it, reject it and put it off, and let's be renewed in our mind, and put on whole new ways of thinking and living that make us productive and fruitful, and make us think like a king, talk like a king, act like a king and experience kingly advances in our life.

Just while our eyes are closed and heads are bowed is there any person here today doesn't know Jesus Christ? This would be a great day for you to turn from an old way of thinking, an old way of life, a life in bondage, slavery and alone, into a life connected to Jesus Christ. At the cross Jesus died and broke the power of sin in your life so you could be free.

Is there anyone here today right at that place of decision? I wonder how many others today, as I've spoken today you realise that much of what you're experiencing in life that makes you unhappy, is a result of wrong thinking, of issues in the heart unresolved, and God's been speaking to you today about putting off the victim mentality, dealing with the victim issues of the heart, and beginning to put on a kingdom mentality - no more blame, standing up, and beginning to take hold of what God says about you. Day by day meditating in the truth, rejecting the lies, evaluating your thoughts as they come in - does this line up with the word of God? If it doesn't - I reject that thought, it's an ungodly thought. I hold the truth in my heart, I confess the truth, meditate on the truth, embrace the truth, until I see it manifest in my life.

I believe there are many people today, God's speaking to you about that. Would you raise your and say: God's really challenged me to have a kingly mentality. Father, I just thank You. Father, I pray today for your grace to flow in the house of God, to break old victim mentalities, and to begin to raise up a new breed and generation with kingly thinking, thinking like a king, thinking as You've called us to think, standing and confronting ungodly thinking, rising up to do new things. Father, we just honour You today. We thank You, You've made us one with You, and Jesus, we give You the honour. Shall we give the Lord a clap today? [Applause]

##  **Summary Notes**

Formatted » Back to Top »

Developing a Kingly Mentality  
12 December 2010

1. Introduction

Romans 8:34-39  
"Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us".  
"More than conquerors" = to gain a decisive victory, gain surpassing victory in every situation.  
We are no longer victims, powerless, at the mercy of circumstances – we are more than conquerors.  
"Through Him" = we are joined to the King of Kings, the one who has overcome the world.

2. Victim Mentality Steals Your Inheritance

(a) Victim Mentality = a way of thinking, of seeing and interpreting people and experiences.  
Proverbs 23:7 = A person who refuses to take responsibility for their life, excuses their actions and blames others for what they are experiencing and feeling in life.

(b) Example of Israel (Numbers 13:25-33)  
(i) How they viewed (thought) their situation – their beliefs!  
· How they saw themselves – "like grasshoppers" (v33) – "not able" (v31)  
· How they saw life challenges – "Giants – stronger than us" (v31, 33)  
· How they saw inheritance (future) – "Land devours inhabitants" (v32)  
· How they saw God – "bought us to ... become victims" (14:3)

(ii) How they responded/reacted  
· Self Pity - "cried, and the people wept that night" (14:1)  
· Blame - complained against Moses and Aaron (14:2)  
· Bitterness - if only we had died in the wilderness (14:2)  
· Judgement - Why has the Lord brought us...to become victims  
(14:3)  
· Rejection/unbelief - "let us select a leader and return to Egypt" (14:4)

· They refused to deal with victim mentality and to believe (trust) God.

(iii) Victim Mentality Cost Inheritance  
Numbers 14:20 – 23  
"They have seen my glory ... they certainly shall not see the land ..."  
· The people saw and experienced the Glory of God and the miracles.  
· Their experience did not change their heart beliefs – they did not develop faith.  
· They did not connect spiritual experience to a life of faith and trust in God.  
· They lost their inheritance through unbelief – Hebrews 3:19  
· NB Blaming is evidence of unbelief, resentment, judgements and bitterness in heart.  
· God desired them to change to repent and come into faith (agreement with God).

· Change requires:  
(i) Recognising patterns of thinking and behaving.  
(ii) Taking responsibility for the root issues and for process of change.  
(iii) Resolving heart grief, anger, resentment, roots of bitterness.  
(iv) Renewing the mind of old patterns of thinking and relating to  
experiences.  
(v) Embracing and believing God's Word – Truth.

3. Kingly Mentality Claims Inheritance

(a) Kingly Mentality = A way of thinking, of seeing and interpreting people and  
experience.  
(1 Corinthians 6:16)  
· Person sees themselves joined to Jesus Christ the King and Conqueror.  
· Person takes full responsibility for their thoughts, feelings, words, and actions.  
(Romans 5:17)  
· Person exercises faith to manifest Christ's victory in and through them.

(b) Example of Caleb  
· Numbers 14:24  
"My servant Caleb, because he has a different spirit in him, and has followed me fully, I will bring into the land where he went ... inherit it"  
· Caleb OT3612 = to be forcible, to attack like a dog

(i) How Caleb viewed his situation  
· How he saw God "..the Lord is with us" Num. 14:8,9  
· How he saw himself "..we are well able to overcome"  
Num. 13:3  
· How he saw the challenges "..they are our bread, their protection  
has gone" Num. 14  
· How he saw the land "..flows with milk and honey" Num 14:8

(ii) How Caleb Responded  
· He silenced the negative talk – Num. 13:30  
· He rejected the negative attitude – Num 14:9  
· He boldly declared the Word of God – Num 13:30/Num 14:9

· He had "another spirit" – a kingly spirit- the spirit of faith!  
· Josh 14:7 "...I brought back word to him as it was in my heart".  
· To wholly follow the Lord we must embrace Christ and His Word in our heart.  
· Caleb and his family possessed the dreams and promises of God.

4. Developing a Kingly Mentality  
(a) The battles of Life are won and lost in the mind and the heart.  
Proverbs 23:7  
"As a man thinks in his heart so is he"  
· Thinks = present continuing process of thinking  
· As you continue to think you are building your life one brick at a time.  
· If your thoughts are the bricks what are you building? Victim? Kingly?  
· Rom. 12:2  
"... be transformed by the renewing (renovation) of your mind".

(b) Thoughts are measurable – they occupy space!  
Thoughts (good and bad-toxic)  
Are electrical impulses, chemicals, neurons  
They form in brain like a tree with branches  
As thoughts grow = more branches, stronger connectors  
As change thinking – some branches vanish and others form, the strength of connectors change, memories network  
Positive thoughts – correct chemicals are released  
Negative thoughts – chemical imbalance which affects the body  
Memories and thoughts are connected to emotions  
Behind emotion is a thought or belief – Joshua 1:8 meditate – speak – do  
Picture- imagine truth  
Feel the thoughts  
Embrace the truth  
Speak the truth  
Repent  
Challenge thoughts

#### http://mikeconnellministries.com

Sermons | Collections | 中国

YouTube | Vimeo | Podcast

eBooks | Paperbacks

Transcripts | 成绩单

Facebook | Share

Donations
