

Walking With the Father

A Christian Handbook

Walking With the Father

### by

### Tracy Kauffman

Published by KG Books

Alabama

© 2014 by Tracy Kauffman.

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of the publishers, except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages in a review to be printed in a newspaper, magazine or journal.

All Scriptures are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

### Dedication

This book is dedicated to those who serve and surrender to Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior.

### TABLE OF CONTENTS:

Dedication

Foreword

Chapter One: Learn to Pray

Chapter Two: Seeking God

Chapter Three: Trusting in the Lord

Chapter Four: Putting off the Flesh

Chapter Five: Fear Thou Not

Chapter Six: The Love of God

Chapter Seven: Faith

Chapter Eight: Learning to Witness

Chapter Nine: Just Ask God

Chapter Ten: Focusing on Godly Things

Chapter Eleven: Be the Example

Chapter Twelve: Contentment is Great Gain

Chapter Thirteen: Seeking God's Will

Chapter Fourteen: Be Happy and Rejoice

Chapter Fifteen: Studying God's Word

Chapter Sixteen: Redeeming the Time

Chapter Seventeen: Jesus, the Lamb of God
Chapter Eighteen: Becoming a Living Sacrifice
Chapter Nineteen: God's Grace

Chapter Twenty: God Loves a Cheerful Giver

Chapter Twenty-one: Praise and Worship

Chapter Twenty-two: Living for Others

Chapter Twenty-three: A Prideful Heart

Chapter Twenty-four: Following the Ordinances of Christ

Poems of Encouragement

### Foreword

Many of us have been in a place where we have sought after God. We have been confused, broken hearted, lonely or in search of answers. We have desperately needed to find help in times of trouble. Something might have happened to someone we love. We might have needed a friend or someone to talk to in times of distress. We have reached that ultimate low where we think that there is no one that understands us or can help us. We might have done something so terrible that we think that we can not ever be forgiven. We might have been all alone in our life and think to ourselves, "There has to be someone that I can talk to." Or you might have questioned, "What else is there for me in my life?"

Let me tell you that there is someone that knows what you are going through. He is someone who cares about you and wants to help you. He wants to build a fellowship with you if only you would seek after him. He is your creator and he wants to be your master. He will stick closer to you than a brother. He loves you more than you love yourself. He can be a ultimate friend that can help you in any situation. He is in control and has powers that control everything. He is willing to forgive you if only you ask. He wants to be your God, your friend, your comforter, your confidant, your protector, your help in time of need.

If you have decided to follow Jesus, "Walking With the Father" can be used as a handbook to guide you in the right direction toward God. If you truly want to have a close relationship with God, then you must seek him with your whole heart.

From the beginning Adam and Eve had a close fellowship with God. God would often go to the Garden of Eden and talk with them (Genesis 3:8). But, when Adam and Even took of the fruit of the tree that God told them not to eat, sin entered the world. God told Adam and Eve that because of their sin, they would one day die. This meant that fellowship they once had would be not exist because of their sin. God made them leave the garden that they cherished, unto a world that was strange to them. They inherited a sin nature called unrighteousness and had to work hard to live on the earth. If you read Genesis you learn that they still had a fellowship with God, but it wasn't the same.

Jesus tells us throughout his word that if we draw nigh to God, we can have a closer relationship with him. That fellowship might not come to you in a day but if you follow some of these guidelines, I'm sure you will develop that relationship with God that you seek. All scriptures in this book are taken from the King James Bible. They should be used for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness (2 Timothy 3:16).

### Chapter One: Learn to Pray

To walk with the Father we must learn to pray. Prayer is the most powerful thing in a person's life that can bring them closer to God. The best way to go to the Father is through your prayer life. Pray to him everyday. Pray often \---several times a day. Pray without ceasing, which means continually. You can pray to God when you are at home ---when you are at the store ---when you are at work. A person doesn't always need to close their eyes to pray.

One might ask, "Why pray?" Just imagine you had a son that never called you or came by for a visit. How would you feel? Now think about what God wants. He wants us to come to him ---to call upon his name.

Now think about this. How are you going to become closer to God, or become a friend of God, without talking to him? Do you talk to your friends everyday. I am talking about your close friends or family You might call them to ask for their advice, tell them good news or just to talk to them. You might call them because you enjoy their company. How are you able to communicate with them if you never call them or stop by.

Now imagine a friend that sticks closer to you than a brother. A person that you can Always count on. A person that loves you unconditionally ---expecting nothing in return. You might have a brother in this life that you are close with. You might argue or disagree with him about something, then he might get mad at you and not talk to you for days or weeks.

He might be the perfect brother than never argues with you, but he has a family of his own. He might not have time to talk to you everyday. Sometimes you are going to need someone to comfort you when no one else will. You have a Heavenly Father that is always there to comfort you and help you in time of need. We must learn to pray to build a close relationship with the Father so he can give us that comfort when we need it. There is not one person on earth that cares more for you than God. I know that your own mother or earthly father doesn't care for you like God does. He knows your weaknesses and pain and wants to help you.

1 Peter 5:7 says, Casting all your cares upon him; for he careth for you. Jesus cared so much for your life that he laid down his own life in your place. John 15:13 says, Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.

Prayer can open great doors for you ---doors that you don't ask for. Sometimes God opens a door that can be a great blessing for you. Praying to the Father when you need help is the best choice you can make. He can help you with your finances. He can help you when you are in pain or sorrow. He can give comfort to those that are hurting, either physically or spiritually. Prayer gives us peace and an overwhelming comfort to our souls. It can calm our fears and help our faith in God.

One day in my life, I was physically sick. I went to the physician and he told me I had a virus. All my labs pointed to a virus. I am a registered nurse and never saw a virus that took weeks to get over. I was weak and tired and couldn't hardly get out of bed. When I did get up and go somewhere, I would have spells where I would almost fall to the ground. I tried to work but would have spells at work. Once I passed out a work and they sent me to the emergency room at the hospital. They said my oxygen was so low that my nails and skin turned blue. This didn't seem like any virus that I had ever heard of.

All I could do was trust in God --- to give my problem over to God. Doctors couldn't help me ---they didn't know what was wrong. I prayed everyday for two months with plenty of tears for God to heal me. I discovered how much God loved me when he took my sickness away.

See, a person must come to the place that they truly pray and ask God for help. He healed me and I haven't had that problem again. It took two months to get over, but I knew God would heal me. He never left me. He waited for me to come to him in prayer. I believe he never had any intention on taking my life. He allowed that illness to come upon me so that I would seek him. To this day, I don't know what was wrong with me, but I know that God was always there for me.

When a person wants to talk to God, they must pray to him as if they were talking to him. Don't say a traditional prayer that you got off the internet. Or a prayer that someone else gave you. Pray from within, from your own heart. Pray as long as you need to. Some might say a quick minute or two prayer. God might hear you, but that will not bring you to a close relationship with the Father.

When is the last time you ever prayer for at least an hour? If you haven't ever prayed for an hour, then I suggest you give it a try. When I first got saved, I was fifteen years old. The preacher ask that question to the whole congregation. I'm sure many lowered their heads that day. I went home and set my clock so I could pray for the whole 60 minutes. It was difficult but I did it. I thought it was difficult because I didn't fully understand the concept of prayer. I didn't know I could prayer for others. So my prayer was simply me talking to God.

God wants us to come to him for help with anything. We can prayer when we are trying to make the right decisions about life, a new job, whether to buy a car, etc... Pray and ask God for his guidance. Don't expect every answer to be what you want. Sometimes we might get an answer that we don't like. Sometimes he chooses not to answer. He knows our heart and his unanswered prayer is really the answer. He doesn't want to give us things that can harm us. He sees the future ahead. He knows when we shouldn't do something. I thank God for unanswered prayers.

I remember praying for things in my life that I wanted. It took years later to understand why God didn't give me my heart's desire. I didn't prayer for money or wealth. I prayed for something that I thought would make me happy. Years later, I seen what could have been my life and I am thankful that he answered with a "No."

Realize who you are talking to when you pray. He is God not your puppet. He is in control not you. We must respect him as our God and King first. He is not simply a buddy to boss around. I remember hearing a prayer once from a girl I went to school with. She prayed as if she was talking to a hang out buddy. It seemed disrespectful to me. I thought she could have shown more respect and honor instead of talking in that fashion.

God will teach us his word if we only ask him to. Have you ever read a passage from the Bible but didn't understand what you were reading. Try praying about it. Ask for wisdom. God gives us wisdom where we can understand things that a lost person wouldn't understand.

Ask yourself when you pray these questions. Is the answer you seek going to take you away from God. Is the answer you seek going to separate you from your Christian walk. For example: If you are wondering if you should start a new job, pray about it. Then consider whether the hours you will have to work will keep you out of church. If so, you might want to reconsider taking a new job. Money isn't everything. Sometimes God gives us things to show us how much he loves us. Then sometimes God allows us to get nice things to teach us a lesson.

Prayer can help you become closer to God or help you become the person you need to be. Prayer can teach you things about the Bible ---how to be a good mother or father ---or show you who God really is.

If you want to develop a bond with God, focus daily on things that you need to pray for. If you pray with sincerity, God hears your prayer. Honor God and give him thanks and glory. The more you pray, the more you will feel at ease. God is not there to harm you but there to listen. Prayer is powerful but we must claim it. If you pray only when you need something, then God might not answer your prayer. You must show God that you love him like he loves you. The more you pray, the closer you will become to God.

2 Chronicles 7:14 says, If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.

These verses I give you are of the Bible and they are true. In order for God to answer your prayers, you must be one of his. Pray and ask God if he will come into your heart because you want to serve him. Ask his to be Lord of your life, and he will forgive you of your sins. He will cast your sins as far as the east from the west, never to remember them again (Psalms 103:12).

You will never be sorry to be a child of God. God will stick closer to you than a brother and will always be there when you need him. You don't have to make an appointment to see him. You don't have to look for him at any time, for he is always there. when you need him. Just find a place by yourself and seek God with your whole heart. Call upon him and he will hear you.

If you want a closer relationship with the Father then first, repent of any un-confessed sin and examine your heart. Get rid of things in your life that affect your spiritual growth. Praise God during the times when you are at your highest and feel blessed, and worship him when you are at your lowest. Praise him with your whole heart.

### Chapter Two: Seeking God

If you are searching for ways to become closer to God, then I hope this book will guide you toward a closer walk with God. I have learned that the best way to find God is by seeking him. To truly seek God, you must have a desire to seek him. Then you can find him through prayer and by reading your Bible. To develop a closer relationship with God, you need to set aside a time everyday to seek him. Find a quiet place in your house to pray, where there are no distractions.

A person who seeks the Lord, must learn who he is. The only way to understand God is by searching things about him. Read his word, the Bible. If you do not understand it, pray and ask God to reveal things to you. If you draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to you (James 4:8). Another way to understand God's word is by going to church and listening to the preacher. If you are unable to go to church, then listen to preaching on the radio or television.

God is waiting on people to seek him because he wants to have a closer relationship with us. Deuteronomy 4:29 says, But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. This does not mean sit down and say a quick prayer. To seek God you must seek him with your whole heart.

To find the Father, you must seek him often. 1 Chronicles 16:11 says, Seek the Lord and his strength, seek his face continually. Then prepare your heart to seek the Lord. A person who continues in sin doesn't want to find God. To find the Father, you must repent of your sins and ask for his forgiveness. Then, seek him with your whole heart through prayer.

If you haven't accepting God as your Lord and Savior then I suggest you pray and ask him to enter your life. He is waiting on you to call upon him. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near (Isaiah 55:6). God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God (Psalm 53:2).

### Chapter Three: Trusting in the Lord

When you have a great need for help in your life, you can depend on God. The Bible teaches us about several great men and prophets that God used because of their faith in him. They won kingdoms, stopped the mouth of lions, won battles, parted the Red Sea, killed giants, healed diseases, etc... They had to believe that God would do what he promised to do. They did not fear man for they knew that God would protect them and help them overcome anything that came their way. They knew it was more important to fear God and trust in him, than to suffer affliction, than to enjoy sin for a season (Hebrews 11:25).

I encourage you to read Hebrews Chapter 11. It is a chapter of faith. Hebrews 11:1 Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. 2 For by it the elders obtained a good report. 3 Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear.

No matter what trials that you have had to overcome, I can tell you others have overcome more. Read the book of Job. Job lost everything he had —covered with diseases. In the end, God restored to Job more than he had in the beginning because he trusted in him. Romans 5:1-5 says, Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ: By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience; And patience, experience; and experience, hope: And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us

A few years ago, my father came near to death — actually he quit breathing. As a nurse, I tried everything to help my father when he was sick in the hospital but nothing seemed to help. We asked everyone we knew to pray for him. It took me and my family to come to the realization that we could not fix the problem. We could not ask God through prayer to help him, and not to trust that God was able to heal him. See, we were not fully putting our trust in God. We thought we could solve the problem ourselves. My sister and I are both nurses. See God doesn't need our help. He is in control of everything. It wasn't until we gave up —until we put everything in God's hands. Then he worked his miracle in my dad. When my dad quit breathing, God put his hands on my father and restored his health.

I discovered who God really was that day. He is the creator, the Almighty and our help in the time of need. Learning who God really is in your life will help you with your faith, and any trials that come your way. God knows all because he looks down from Heaven upon his children (Psalm 53:2).

Nothing happens in this life that God does not know about. Sometimes God allows things to happen to us or people we love so that we will come to him. He deserves your honor and praise and your love for him. He will answer your prayers if you come to him with your whole heart. A quick five second prayer is not giving God your whole heart. He wants us to diligently seek him. Hebrews 11:6 says, But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.

God knows what you need before you pray, but is waiting on you to ask him. The more you pray, the closer you will be to God. I have learned that when something goes wrong, stop and pray. Prayer helps you to defeat anything, including Satan. Satan knows your weaknesses and will use them against you. If you are a Christian, he wants you to fall into sin. We can prepare ourselves against Satan's tactics. Ephesians 6:13 says, Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Ephesians 6:16 says, Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

If you are truly going to trust in God, you must walk by faith. 2 Corinthians 5:7 says, For we walk by faith, not by sight: If you only have faith when everything is going right, than where is your faith? God gives us his Holy Spirit to comfort us and help us when we are troubled in this life. John 14:26,27 says, But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.

Everything that happens to you in your life adds to the person you are. God prepares us to be witnesses to the world by helping us in our times of need. He builds to our faith through helping us overcome trials and tribulations. If you walk in God's law and live a life that is pleasing to him, he will give you peace. God's wisdom is much higher than ours. His thoughts are much higher than our thoughts. Just believe that he knows exactly what he is doing.

Once we hand our cares to Father completely, then he will perform his work ----his miracle. Sometime his will is not our will. Sometimes his will is to take his children home to be with him. We must trust that he cares about us and is able to perform all miracles and that he has a purpose for what he does. He knows what he is doing.

To trust God, we must have faith. Faith is important for prayers to be answered. Believe that is able to do all things and that he will help us willingly if only we would ask him to. I have questioned, "Will God help me?" I knew God was able but questioned whether he would help me, a sinner. The answer is that he loves each and everyone of us. You must believe he will answer your prayer and that he knows what we need before we ask him. Sometimes our prayers are not answered because we don't ask him. Trust in God today! Allow him to be your master and Lord.

### Chapter Four: Putting off the Flesh

If you truly want to serve Christ, you must prepare your mind ---meditating on Godly things. A Christian fights daily with their flesh. As long as you live upon this earth, you will sin. You must ask forgiveness of your sin and Jesus will forgive you.

If you want to keep your mind on spiritual things, then be aware of the things you allow yourself to see. One thing that most people aren't aware of is the bad influence of television. When you turn on your television, be aware of what you are watching. If you are watching shows that represent anything ungodly then turn the channel. If you continue to watch these things, then your mind will become desensitized and you will no longer think it is wrong to watch. For example: the first time you watch a movie about witchcraft you might think it is completely immoral. The next time it doesn't seem as bad ---and so on. This doesn't mean this show is all right to watch. It means that you have started to make excuses for watching it.

You might say, witchcraft isn't bad, it's just a show. This type of thing God hates. Galatians 5:19-21 says, Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.

Another way to prepare your mind to serve God is by listening to Gospel music.

The Bible tells us in 1 Samuel 16:23 that when King Saul had an evil spirit around him, that David played a harp and he was refreshed. The same applies today.... If we play soft music or Gospel music instead of Rock or Country songs then we will not have an evil presence around us. If you listen to the words of these types of songs, they are pure evil. There are still evil presences around us today. I have personally witnessed these around me at certain times. I don't say this to scare you but to help you learn how to become closer to God. If you want God around you, prepare your mind to allow him in

Next, studying your Bible will help you put off the flesh. How are we suppose to learn what is truly righteous and good if we don't read our Bible. Think of the Bible as a handbook for Christians to go by. The Bible is the preserved and divine word of God. Hebrews 4:12 says, For the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. God preserved his word through several generations. Psalms 12:6,7 says, The words of the Lord are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever.

The Bible is filled with knowledge, parables, insights into a happy life, helpful topics about life, love, fear, child rearing, prayer, the creation, future events, and about men who faced big battles. The word of God holds the keys to questions of the world. God tells us about himself and his son Jesus. He tells us what sin is and what he will not accept into Heaven. He teaches us that he is a righteous God. God tells us that we should study and learn about him by reading his laws. Deuteronomy 17:19 says, And it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life: that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them.

Another way to put off the flesh is by going to church regularly. I say this because I know how easy it is to stray from God. Sometimes we allow work or different things come up that takes us from church. God tells us not to forsake going to church (Hebrews 10:25). That we can exhort and encourage others by going too. I can tell when I miss church ---it feels like a part of me is missing. Your church should be considered your other family. They can help you when you need them to.

Forgiving others is another way to put off your flesh. It is human nature for someone to want to strike back at someone when they are offended. No one likes to be mocked, ridiculed or hurt by someone else. Christians should not retaliate against others but have forgiveness. To forgive others it takes humility sometimes. Humility is an honorable trait that can help everyone in all aspects of their lives. The Bible tells us "And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you (Ephesians 4:32). But if we don't forgive others of their trespasses against us, then our Heavenly Father will not forgive us (Matthew 6:15).

Next thing to do is to open your heart to God's voice. Pray and seek his guidance ---seek his will for your life. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much (James 5:16). A person who truly wants to hear from God will pray longer, more often and earnestly.

Last of all, develop the qualities that the Bible says are of the Spirit of God. In Galatians 5:22,23 says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. If you want to be more like God then try to inherit these qualities.

### Chapter 5: Fear Thou Not

Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness (Isaiah 41:10). These are words to live by. Probably everyone has experienced some form of fear in their life. If you have children, I know you have. Realize God is in control. When you realize that God is in control, your fears will be relieved.

When I was younger, I use to have anxiety attacks. They would come on and I ddn't know how to control them. I worried about everything ---from my health to my safety. Although I struggled with these for a few months, I believed that God was in control and could help me. So one day when I had a panic attack, I started quoting Bible verses that I had memorized before. The more I quoted them, the more at ease I felt. Finally they left me and I haven't had one since.

God says in Revelations, "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I am he that was, and is, and is to come the Almighty." God controls the wind, clouds and waves. He has been to the depth of the sea and to the outermost parts of the universe. He knows about us. He numbers the hairs on our head. He can create life and he can take it. When you realize how almighty he is, then you can fully put your trust in him. He can help you with your problems but you have to have him to ---then trust that he will.

Fear can take on any form or shape in your life ---meaning that fear can be about you or others things in your life. To those with children, a parent has experience some sort of fear when it come to their children. I want to share my past experience with you and hope it help guide you in the right direction, for controlling your fears. My daughter has a seizure disorder, called Epilepsy. One day when she was three, she had her first one. She didn't have the classic seizure with the jerking and uncontrollable movements. She la on my couch unable to move or speak. Her eyes were open but wasn't able to respond to me. I learned what fear was that day. To have a child that you don't know what is wrong with will tear you apart. Not knowing what was wrong with my little girl scared me so much it consumed me.

All sorts of thoughts ran to my mind. I though she had gotten into something, perhaps a poison of some kind. I didn't know. I kept calling her name in fear, hoping she would answer me ---nothing. So I ran to the phone and called an ambulance. Minutes seemed like an eternity to me while I waited for the ambulance. They finally came within a few minutes and took her to the hospital. After the doctor ran test and examined her, I was told she had a seizure. He told me that children have seizures when they are sick and she would probably never have another one. I wished that was the case.

About a month later she had another one. It occurred when she first woke up from her sleep. So I called an ambulance again and there we both went to the hospital again. This time they admitted her and did some test. They gave her medicine and discharged her after a day. The doctor referred her to a Neurologist. The Neurologist gave me the dreadful news that my daughter had Epilepsy. What was that, I didn't know of anyone that had ever had that. I was afraid for my daughter. I started praying and asking God to help her. At that point in my life, I drew closer to God. I read the Bible more and would walk around my house quoting scriptures ---and from room to room praying. I believed that God could deliver this illness from my daughter. I prayed that God would protect her and heal her.

I questioned why my daughter had this. I looked for answers in the Bible. I seen this illness as a wickedness that tried to take over my daughters life. I felt tormented for her life. I begged God to deliver her from this. I was powerless and helpless in her recovery.

The doctor put her on medicine but she kept having the seizures anyway. She had them over the course of a few years. Every time she would have a seizure the doctor would increase the strength of her medicine. Nothing seemed to help and nothing made her better ---in fact, they increased. I was at my breaking point and begged God to do something to help her. When she was at the adult strength of her medicine, I told the doctor, "No. There has to be something else we can do for her." I was afraid they were going to harm her and I wasn't going to allow them to.

Finally the doctor told me that there was a diet he could try her on. He called it the Ketogenic diet and said it was similar to the Adkins diet. It is amazing how God works. The day before I had seen a movie about this diet and how it helped people recover from Epilepsy. So I agreed to put her on the diet. I thought that maybe this was the answer God was giving me to help her.

The diet consisted of mainly milk, eggs and cheese. So I followed the diet to the letter and kept her on this diet for three months, until she returned to the doctor. At this time she was in Elementary school and it was very difficult to pack her a lunch of only meat, eggs and cheese ---no breads or sugary drinks. The teachers were not very helpful but agreed to heat her lunch for her at mealtimes.

Danielle and I were criticized by the teachers at the school. They thought she was just not paying attention and told me to put her on ADD medicine. I tried to explain to them about her medical condition but they didn't seem to care. I researched laws about how discrimination of children with medical conditions. I called the Board of Education and talked with the Superintendent which didn't help. Then someone told me that schools were required to have a medical person on staff that works on behalf of children with disabilities. It took a while but the staff were told that they must help her. They had to allot extra time for class-work to be completed. Danielle went from strait F's to A's and B's. See her teacher would grade her paper before she had time to finish her work. The doctor would write the school notes but they would ignore them.

To the naked eye, Danielle was normal, but to the trained physician, she had an illness. Her Neurologist ran test and it showed that her Frontal part of her brain wasn't working properly. She would have multiple Petit-mal seizures throughout the day. Her seizures made it very difficult for her to concentrate.

To shorten the story, the diet helped Danielle go from one a year to none. See, God healed my daughter completely from her illness. She no longer has trouble at school. She doesn't have this illness and is free from seizures. Danielle has been seizure free for five years and is no longer on her diet.

Fear can take control of you and ruin your life if you allow it too. Sometimes things happen to us that brings us to a closer walk with God. Satan wants to take over your life and consume you with fear so you will not be productive for God.

The closer you come to God, the more Satan will throw darts your way. He knows your weakness and wants to shift you like wheat. 1 Peter 5:8 says, "Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour."

### Chapter Six: The Love of God

As much as a person wants to express love for others, you cannot out-love God. God has proven to us several times how much he loves us. He loved us so much that he gave up his only son on a cross, to die for the sins of the world. Have any of you ever given up your son for someone else --- allowed them to die in another person's place. God is a perfect example of love. To show you a little about his love for us, look at 1 John Chapter 4. 1 John 4:10,16 says, "Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him."

Anyone who has had a son or daughter, that they have lost to death, has had a glimpse of what God went through when he gave us his son. The most precious thing that belongs to someone is their family and especially their children. Jesus was God's son before his birth on this earth. This should show you how much God sacrificed because he loves us. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him, shall not perish but have everlasting life (John 3:16).

I have had close family members to die and have seen other family members lose someone close to them. My sister lost her baby, Shelly when she was six months old. She didn't choose to give her daughter to death. She was a special little girl who God loved and took at an early age. I have only caught of glimpse of what it would be like to lose a child to death. It is an overwhelming grief that takes a lifetime to overcome.

God loved us so much that he decided to give his son as a sacrifice on the cross. I can only imagine that giving your child to death is much harder than to lose a child suddenly. To see your child suffer a terrible death on a cross. To see your child spit upon and mocked would be unbearable. Then to turn your head away from your child when he is suffering and calling upon your name from the cross. See God turned his head from the sins that were laid upon his son on the cross.

God wants us to have love for one another. If you cannot love your brother who you can see, how can you love God that you cannot see. Learn to love others and it will make it easier for you to forgive others. To truly love others, you need to live for others. Don't worry so much about yourself, look at the needs of others. People have many needs ---not only money. Some have spiritual needs that you can help them with.

I work at a nursing home and have learned that everyone needs love. One day, I walked inside a resident's room and started talking to him. He said that he was so lonely and that he didn't know what to do. No one ever came to visit him. I asked him if he knew Jesus. He said that his family never came to see him and he felt all alone. I told him that Jesus was always with him. Jesus said, "I'll never leave you or forsake you." I tried to tell him to surrender to God and that Jesus would be his friend and comforter. The Bible says that Jesus was a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. I told him that when he was sad and feeling lonely to pray and talk to God.

1 Corinthians 13:4-8, Tells us that Love is Charity. Love is kindness and love is not envy. Love is not easily provoked and does not rejoice in iniquity but in the truth of God. Love bears all things. Love never fails and endures all things. A person with love should care about others, rejoice with people who are happy and cry with those who are sad.

### Chapter Seven: Faith

If you have taken that first step to believe in Jesus Christ, then you have faith. To please God, we must develop more faith in him. Faith enough to overcome all obstacles that can get in our way and hinder us. Having faith means standing on your beliefs and telling others about Christ. Having Faith is putting your trust in God completely. Having faith means to do what God tells you to do, even though you are scared.

But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of salvation (1 Thessalonians 5:8). Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen (Hebrews 11:1). An example of faith is walking to your wall and turning on the light switch. You have faith that the lights will come on when you flip the switch. If you didn't have faith in that, you wouldn't have flipped the switch.

The Bible tells us, that without faith it is impossible to please him: For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him (Hebrews 11:6). He wants to reward his children and give them the desires of their heart. The Bible says that if we have faith as a mustard seed, we could move mountains and nothing would be impossible for us (Matthew 17:20).

God teaches us a lot about faith in his scriptures ---look in Hebrews Chapter Eleven. If we believe in him and what he tells you and you can accomplish great things for him. If you think that you can ask for great riches, beware, because he warns us against this. God wants us not to seek after the riches of this world. He doesn't want us to seek after possessions and high statuses, such as those that receive praise from man. He wants you to seek after him and his righteousness. Then we will receive great riches in Heaven.

In Hebrews 11:16 says, "Desire a better country, that is, an Heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he prepared for them a city.

Faith and trust are similar because we must trust that God is able to help us no matter what life throws our way. Learning who God really is will help you with your faith. God is in control of everything. We don't always see the things that God is doing for us or our loved ones because our eyes are not on him. If you want to be able to see how great God is, then focus your affection on him. He will enlighten you and let you see how he works. God is all knowing ---nothing happens in this world that God doesn't know about. He is the creator, master, lord and God. When you fully surrender to him, then God will help you with all your trials and tribulations in this world.

Having faith in God helps us to triumph over our enemies. He might allow some things in your life to help you with your faith. He knows exactly what he is doing. Trust in him no matter what happens and he will take care of it. Keep in mind that God's time is different from ours. He will do things on his time. Everything that happens to you in your life adds to the person you will become. The Bible tells us, that tribulation worketh patience, and patience, experience, and experience, hope (Romans 5:3,4). The Bible tells us, that when a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him (Proverbs 16:7).

### Chapter Eight: Learn to Witness

One thing God tells you to do is spread the gospel of Jesus by witnessing. One of the last things Jesus said to the people on this earth, before he ascended unto Heaven, was to teach all nations and preach the Gospel. Luke 14:23 says, "And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled."

One great joy that a Christian experiences is to tell others about Jesus. The first time I ever went witnessing was when a lady in Texas asked me to go with her. I was young and didn't know what to say. She told me to just come along and watch. I learned that the second person can help with any outside distractions that might prevent the Gospel from being told. So, I went along and watched. Sometimes I played with animals and children while she witnessed.

Finally she asked me to be the one who told the Gospel to others. I was nervous and didn't know how to tell others about Jesus. I knew I was a Christian myself and I know what God did for me, so it helped me when I told others about Jesus.

The more I went with her, the easier it got to speak. First, I would just invite them to church. If they had questions then that opened the door for me to continue witnessing to them. Teaching others about Jesus brings a fulfillment to me. I know that I am doing what God has commanded me to do.

Some of the basic scriptures that you can teach others when you are witnessing comes from the Book of Romans. If someone tells you that they are good and don't need salvation, quote Romans 3:10. There is none righteous, no not one. Romans 3:23 says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Then I tell them that God forgives us of our sins if we ask him. "But God commended his love toward us that while we were sinners, Christ died for us" (Romans 5:8). "For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord", (Romans 6:23).

If they decide they want to surrender to God and become a Christian then I quote Romans 10:9,10, "That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart, man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation."

If they say that they doubt their salvation, I quote, 1 John 5:13. "These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God.'

To know something is to have complete knowledge of it. You can have one hundred percent knowledge that God will save you if you believe in him and ask him into your heart.

God puts you here as a witness. It is hard to witness if we think only about ourselves. You need to tell yourself daily that you should live for others and not yourself. Don't worry what others say about you ---don't worry what they do to you. God is on your side. Don't worry! God doesn't want you to be caught up in the affairs of this life but he wants you to set your affection on him. Don't worry who was mean to you or called you a name. It is not about you but about God. Your purpose is to spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

Satan will often put snares in front of you and you WILL be persecuted by others. I know because Satan will do everything in his power to prevent you from telling others about Jesus. God wants you to live for others. Ask yourself today, What can I do to help others? Who can I give to today?

The next step after salvation is to find a church home and become a member. Look for a church that believe in telling the truth. Don't look for a feel good church that waters down the truth to make someone feel good about themselves. If you truly want to become closer to God then you need to find the right church. Then be baptized if you aren't already. Read Chapter Twenty-four of this book to learn more about Baptism.

Witnessing to others helps you build upon a closer and stronger foundation with God. 1 Corinthians 3:11-15 says, "For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble; Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire."

1 Peter 1:4 says, "We will receive an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in Heaven for you". If we are going to receive an inheritance, we are God's sons and daughters. Here on this earth when our fathers die, they leave an inheritance to their children. They usually don't leave it to someone else's family, they leave it to their children.

James 5:20 says, "Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins." This shows how important it is to tell others about God.

### Chapter Nine: Just Ask God

If any of you have a need, just ask God for help. You can ask God for anything. God says in his word to ASK. Matthew 7:7 says, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:"

God wants us to ask him for things. I didn't say ask for earthly riches but God says that we can ask him for things that we need. You may need help with your finances and God can provide. I know this from experience. God takes care of his people. But, you should sit at home and decide not to work thinking God will pay all your bills. The Bible says, "That if any would not work, neither should he eat" (2 Thessalonians 3:10).

There have been times in my life that I had to depend on the Lord to help me pay my bills and help provide my husband and I with a meal. When my husband and I were first married, he was in the military. He had a steady income but when he moved from the base to an apartment, he had to pay the rent there. For a couple of months he didn't get any extra money even though we were not living on the base. We paid for housing, electricity, etc on $400 a month. To some that seems like poverty and it was at that time. I don't know where the rent money or electricity money came from because he had a car payment that took up most of that $400. So basically God provided the rent, electricity and food money because we didn't have any extra income. To me it was a miracle, but at the time, I was scared.

God can provide although you may not always see it at first. God has always supplied our needs. I never said he supplied our wants but our needs. Sometimes we would suddenly get money in the mail or someone would give it to us. We were given a bag of groceries from the military that fed us during that time in Texas. Once we got money from the Insurance company because we didn't have any claims for that year. God is able to supply our needs. Philippians 4:19 says, "But my God shall supply your needs according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus." In Ephesians 3:20, he tells us that he is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think.

Money shouldn't be all that you ever ask God for. You can ask for guidance, peace, help with troubles. When I was in my late teens, I asked for a husband. I was ready to settle down and wanted God to send the right man my way. This may seem strange to some but I knew the divorce rate. I had heard about how some marriages didn't work out but I wanted mine to. I wanted a Godly man that I could grow old with. If you are single, God can help you find a Godly woman but you must be a Godly man. Or he can give you a Godly man but you need to serve him as a Godly woman.

When I met my husband I knew that God sent him to me. He came from a completely different state. He served in the military with my brother in law in Iraq. He had been shown pictures of me and wrote letters to me from Iraq. After he came back to the sates to meet me and got saved in my church, I knew he was the right one for me. He asked me to marry him on Christmas Day. I was unsure because I really didn't know him that well. I told him no at first. Then finally I decided to trust in God and that he was the one meant for me. We have been married for twenty-two years now.

So don't be afraid to ask God for things that you want. God says in John 14:14, "If ye ask anything in my name, I will do it." I believe God hears the prayers of his people. 1 John 3:22 says, "And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight."

### Chapter Ten: Having Godly Thoughts

God tells us in his word that we as Christians should focus on pure thoughts and not evil ones. It is hard to always think on good thoughts so we need to keep in mind this thought and try to avoid things that are not Godly. God tells us in 2 Corinthians 10:5, "Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ".

God said, "Every thought to the obedience of Christ". That is a lot of thought in a day. God knows how hard it is to live on this earth with every evil influence that surrounds us daily. In Philippians 4:8 God says, "Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things."

God tells us in his word that he will help us keep our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus (Philippians 4:7). The Bible also says that as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. That speaks large volumes to where we are in our Christian walk. If we are not focused on God, Jesus, Heavenly things, salvation, etc... then we are not where we need to be. I know that not one person in this life will always keep these things on their minds at all times but I say we can strive to.

To live we must work; therefore sometimes work can pull us away from God. I have learned that from my own experiences that working in a place that allows people to curse, talk evil of others etc... will hinder your walk with God. I had to make a decision to take that distraction from me, so I could walk closer to God. I encourage you to examine this part of your life. Please pray before making any decisions and make sure it is the right decision for you. God said, "If a man will not work, neither shall he eat."

Everyone on earth still has to deal with things pertaining to the flesh. "The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak," Mark 4:28. As long as we live, we are going to have to fight against things. The devil knows your weakness and will do everything in his power to get you to fail. He wants to be able to condemn you.

What do you think about most of the day? Is your mind on worldly things or Godly things? If your mind is on Godly things then you will seek God's will. What does he want you to do? Seek after Godly things and he will reveal things to you. It might come in a day or a month but he will eventually tell you what he would have you do for him. Read Chapter Thirteen to help you with this.

Now in order to help you seek after God and tell you ways to keep your thoughts pure, then I must give you the truth. A Christian must watch what they do, see, hear and touch. What are you allowing yourself to do that you know is wrong? Are you going places you shouldn't? Are you committing sins against God such as adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness or revellings (Galatians 5:19-21).

What do you allow yourself to see? Are you going to movies that are filthy or that contain explicit things such as sex or idolatry? What is idolatry? Idolatry is when a person worships a false god such as any image, deity, or object that is illegitimate or non-functioning in its professed authority or capability; worshipping a person with great admiration, adoration, or devotion; having a strong devotion or feeling of strong love or loyalty which causes one to devote a large amount of time, money, energy, etc., for a particular purpose.

What do you allow yourself to hear? Are you listening to dirty jokes, cursing on a continuous basis? Are you reading things that you know are not Godly such as dirty books or magazines? God says to focus on pure thoughts not on things of this earth. Are your thoughts pure before God?

Have you considered your family or children that live with you. Anything that you are doing will affect your family in one way or another. You may say, "I don't allow my children to watch things that I watch". Even so, they will be affected by your behaviors and what you say. You might not mean to say things that your children shouldn't hear but if you are not focused on pure thoughts, some things will slip out onto your children.

Christ is unchanging. The Bible tells us that Jesus is the same today as he was yesterday. He doesn't change with the ages. He doesn't take on new thoughts because our world views have changed. If it was wrong during his time, it is still wrong in his eyes.

### Chapter Eleven: Be the Example

When you come to the end of your journey here on earth, what type of legacy do you plan on leaving your children. What type of life you live and how you live it will affect others, including your children. You can choose to set a Godly example for your children or a bad example. Remember when you die, your legacy is left behind to your children.

GALATIANS 6:9 teaches us that one day we will reap what we have sown. If you sow good deeds, you will one day reap good things; You will sow good things in this life and the life to come. MATTHEW 6:19-21 says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

No one knows the day or the hour that they will die. Hebrews 9:27 says, And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment. So now is the time to focus on what you what to leave behind. Your children will be affected by your decisions. Did you take your children to church and teach them about God. Or did you play church and never fully commit. It is harder to win back someone that you thought had received Christ, when they stray from the word of God.

My ancestors left behind a legacy of the Gospel of Christ. You may ask how I know this. My great great grandfather started a church. My cousin is the pastor there. We have preachers, deacons on the church role. This led to other family members being saved and becoming preachers and deacons. You may ask why this matters. It matters because without them, the gospel might not have been shared with me. See I am thankful for the legacy my family left behind.

So to get to the point. Your actions affect others. Your children and family are watching your every move. Are you taking your children to church on a regular basis? What type of movies and television programs do you allow them to watch? What type of music are they listening to? You may ask why this mattes. Today mostly ALL shows promote witchcraft, cursing, evil, homosexuality, gossip, disrespect to authority, world things, haters of God, sex, carnality and such. Do you want your child growing up thinking this is okay.

When a person watches something like this on a continuous basis, they are eased into believing it is okay. To make my point, when I was younger, television never showed someone with their clothes off. They never promoted the things I mentioned before. Now, times have changed, and not for the better. Today evil shows are on the rise. People's eyes are blinded to what Satan is really doing. Ask yourself this question. Is God pleased with this? I say that I think God is angry with this sin.

Why is it so prevalent today? Satan is pushing everything ungodly to our children. He does not want your children to be saved. He does not want your grandchildren saved. He is working overtime to promote evil and people think it is okay. PROVERBS 22:6 says, Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. If you train your child to accept evil, they will not depart from it. If you teach your children that it is okay to murder, commit adultery and such, they will not depart from it. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord (Joshua 24:13). Chose today what legacy you will leave to your children.

Here are some things to consider when teaching your child to live a Godly life.

  * What do you allow your child to do?

  * What type of television shows or movies do they watch?

  * What type of music are they listening to?

  * Do you use curse words in front of them?

  * Are you teaching them how to defraud others?

  * Do you promote reading the Bible?

  * Do you take them to church regularly?

  * Do you monitor what they see on the internet?

  * Have you taught them what is right and wrong?

  * Have you taught them about God and Jesus?

  * Do you punish your child when they do wrong?

  * Are you teaching your child to watch things that will help them in their Christian walk?

There are so many ungodly influences in the world that promote evil. Lots of people telling people that God is not real. The word of God teaches us to be the example. To correct our child when it is needed. Some people do not believe in punishing their child. They people that "love" will show them the right way. PROVERBS 22:15, Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. PROVERBS 23:13-14 says, Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell.

Please do not spoil your child. if you give your child everything that he wants, he will grow up thinking he is entitled to things. He will grow up prideful. He will not respect you or honor you and will be miserable. He will be bored with his life because he will not have anything to look forward to. People tend to enjoy things that they worked hard for, instead of things that are given to them. Teach your child to work hard for what he gets and then reward him. Don't let your child rule the house. Set the rules that they need to go by.

Last of all, to leave a good legacy, you must first be right with God. Pray to him often and seek his guidance in your life. Seek his guidance on how to raise and correct your child. He will help you if only you would ask him to. If you start with a good legacy, it will make things easier. If you allow your child to do as he pleases, then it will be much harder to bring him back to God. Deuteronomy 6: 5-7 says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.

### Chapter Twelve: Contentment is Great Gain

Paul says in Philippians 4:11, "For I have learned in whatsoever state that I am in, to be content". Paul, a great apostle, was the best person to teach us this. Paul learned to be content when he was suffering and hungry. He went through several things in his life that most have never had to face. He was shipwrecked, snake bitten, almost drowned, beaten and thrown in prison, etc... If Paul could learn how to be content, we all can. Contentment with Godliness is great gain (1 Timothy 6:6).

The meaning of content is: to be in a state of happiness or satisfaction. To be content is to accept your life as adequate, not wanting something more. It means your heart is content with what God has given you ---not seeking after the desires of this world. When you have contentment, you have peace. You don't have the cares and worries that some might have to deal with. You are not seeking after riches and worldly possessions. Luke 8:14 teaches us a parable. "And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection." When someone is caught up with the cares of riches and pleasures of this world it is hard to do God's service.

God wants you to seek after him and his righteousness and he said, "All these things will be added to you" (Matthew 6:33). He tells us that he will give you the desires of your heart if you delight in the Lord (Psalms 37:4). If your heart's desire is on things above, then you will not seek after evil things. You will not be asking for riches and fame. Look at what happen to King Solomon in the Bible. God gave Solomon one wish. 1 Kings 3:9 tells us that Solomon asked for an understanding heart to judge his people and to discern between good and bad. He didn't ask for long life, riches or the life of his enemies. This pleased the Lord and he granted him his wish and everything he didn't ask for such as riches, long life and the life of his enemies.

Learn to be content with what God has given you in this world. I'm not saying be content with wickedness. Don't look at the world and say, "Well that is how it is or there is nothing I can do about it". There were great men that didn't settle for the ways of the world but they set their minds to witness, preach the gospel and help others the best way they could. God looks at the things that you do in this life. He looks at what he has given you and what you do with it. He has granted people with fame to see what they did with it. One example was Billy Graham. He is one of the most famous preachers in the world today. He could have changed his views and used it for evil things but he set his mind on God. Just remember no one is small in God's eyes. He uses the humble to fulfill his will too. As long as you have a willing heart. God will use you for his purpose. "But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty" (1 Corinthians 1:27).

### Chapter Thirteen- Seeking God's Will

God wants you to seek his will for your life. Everyone here on this earth has a gift. 1 Corinthians 12:4 says, "Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit." If you continue to read the rest of Chapter 12 you will read about the different types of gifts that God has given men. Everyone on this earth has been given a gift that will help him (1 Corinthians 12:7). Your gift might be teaching, being a prayer warrior, singing, teaching, encouraging others, witnessing or just being a friend. Once you find out what your gift is, use that gift. Seek answers through prayer and God will reveal what he wants you to do.

Your gift is probably something that you really enjoy doing and perhaps you didn't realize that it could be used for God's will. If you are a singer, use it to sing Christian or gospel music. Be careful because some have started singing for the Lord but went on to sing for things that didn't pertain to the gospel. Some great singers started by singing in the church choir.

You are never too young to do anything for the glory of the Lord. Don't let anyone tell you that you are too young to teach, lead the singing, etc... Don't let Satan discourage you. The Bible says not to let anyone despise your youth (1 Timothy 4:12). If you have a gift that God has given you, use it for God's will. Remember you are adding to your Heavenly foundation. God has set up an inheritance in Heaven for you. 1 Corinthians 2:9 says, " But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him."

You don't have to be perfect to be a witness for Christ. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 2:1, that he didn't have excellent speech or great wisdom, but he set in his heart that he would spread the testimony of Christ. Exodus 4:11,12 says, And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the Lord? Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say.

When I was twenty I started teaching Sunday School. I did not have all the answers but I had a willing mind. If someone doesn't teach others about Jesus, who will? Don't always assume someone is a better teacher than you. Don't think that because someone is smarter than you with more education than you, that they could do a better job. Remember God didn't give the ability to teach to everyone.

"Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all things shall be added unto you," Matthew 6:33. If you want to know more about the Bible Ask God. If you want to have wisdom, which is knowledge of God, than you can ask for it. Proverbs 2:6 says, "For the Lord giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding." God wants us to seek after wisdom and understanding instead of riches, health or honor. He tells us in Proverbs 9:10, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding."

### Chapter Fourteen: Be Happy and Rejoice

God wants his children to be happy and to rejoice. When I worked at the hospital one of the verses the other nurses and I would quote was Proverbs 17:22. "A merry heart doeth good like a medicine." There is a song that we used to sing in church a lot. It is Rejoice in the Lord Always. The first line is: Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say again I say rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say again I say rejoice. Paul wrote Philippians 4:4 to tell the saints at Philippi to be happy no matter what state they were in. "Rejoice in the Lord always: and again I say, Rejoice."

To worship God, we must worship God in spirit and in truth. We must praise him with song. We must worship him and sing praises to his name. Psalm 28:7 says, "The Lord is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him." Psalms 66:1,2 says, "Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands: sing forth the honour of his name: Make his praises glorious."

If Paul could rejoice in prison, then we can rejoice. We have a lot to be thankful for. God has given you life so that you might enjoy all things. He has given you air to breathe. He gave you his son as a sacrifice on a cross, so that your sins would be forgiven. He has given you mercy and grace. There is nothing we can do to deserve God's grace except believe on his son. God's grace is a free gift to those who will claim it. You must believe on Jesus, the son of God. You must believe that he died on the cross for your sins. There was nothing in us that sought after God. Romans 3:11 says, There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God." Jesus came to seek and save those that were lost (Luke 19:10). There is none righteous, no not one (Romans 3:10).

God says that he will hear us when we call him. He will be with us in trouble. He will protect us from harm. There is nothing that can happen to us that God doesn't know about. Sometimes we might go through something in our life, so that it might bring us closer to him. Sometimes we go through things that we do not understand. God has a reason for everything. He might use your life to help someone else come to him. God loves us and he will help us when we need him. Psalms 91:1 says, "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high, shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty."

Psalms 95:2 says, "Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with Psalms." God gives us peace when we love his word. Psalms 119:165 says, "Great peace have they, which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them." Proverbs 16:7 says, When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him."

In order to rejoice and be happy, you must forgive yourself for the wrong you have done in the past. Don't keep looking back and say: I did this or I did that. Look at Paul in the Bible, he kept pointing out all of his mistakes ---his past sins. He said that he was the chief of sinners (1 Timothy 1:15). No matter what Paul did, God forgave him and used him for his service. God can use you too if you ask him for forgiveness. Paul toward the end of this life said, "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith," 2 Timothy 4:7. He knew that God forgave him and he knew he had completed the work that God gave him to do. Remember God forgives you too. So Forgive yourself.

Praise God with song and worship him often. The best way to truly worship God is by finding a church to go to. Read Chapter Twenty-one to learn more about praise and worship.

### Chapter Fifteen: Study to Be Approved of God

In order to be closer to God, we must know what he commands us to do. We must know about the Bible and to read it. 2 Timothy 2:15 says, "Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth." In order to be used of God to teach others about Christ, you need to know what his word says. You may need to know where something is in the Bible to be able to show someone where it is.

When we read the Bible we are to meditate upon it. Read it word by word ---sentence by sentence. Isaiah 28:10 says, "For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, and there a little, The more you read the word of God, the more you will remember and be able to tell others what you have learned. You can't learn the whole Bible in a day or even a year. You could read the Bible through several times and still not know everything. The Bible is the greatest book you will ever read. You can study it, search it and learn from it. You may read a scripture once and get one important meaning from it, then later read it again and get something different. I encourage you to read it word by word.

If we read God's word than we will know what God thinks about sin, therefore making it harder to sin. Psalm 119:11 says, "Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee." You have to know what God's law is in order to know what sin is. To obtain knowledge is good but wisdom comes from above. Proverbs 4:7 says, "Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding."

Let the word of God guide you day by day. Psalm 119:105 says, "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." It gives us instruction on everything we need to know. 2 Timothy 3:16 says, "All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness."

The Bible helps us with any trouble that might come our way. It helps us know how to teach our children, to love others, to love our spouse. It teaches us how to behave and how to respect others, including our masters. Our masters are those that have the rule over us, such as a boss, the president, police officers, etc... We are to follow laws that have been set up by our rulers as long as they do not interfere with what God has told us to do.

In the last days, the Bible tells us that there could be scoffers that mock God, rulers who will judge you harshly for telling others about Christ. Luke 21:12 says, "But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake." There might be a time when you will have to stand against the rulers of this world for the sake of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Read Chapter Sixteen regarding the last days to learn more about this.

The word of God is more precious than silver or gold, it is the greatest book ever written. David said in Psalm 119:127, Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold." It is the divine word of God. God speaks to us through his word. If you need to know anything, pray and ask God for guidance and read his word. He will reveal things to you through his word. The word of God is powerful and can show us our ways, whether good or bad.

The Bible can show you what your sin is. Hebrews 4:12, "The word of God is quick, powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart."

The Bible feeds our spirit and not our flesh. Matthew 4:4 says, "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeded out of the mouth of God." His word fills our spirit and helps us not to hunger after unrighteousness. Our spirit will seek things that are of God \---while our flesh will seek things that are unrighteous. The more you seek after God's law, the closer you will become to God. You will feel his presence upon your life. His spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the sons of God (Romans 8:16). In Chapter Four, you read how the spirit fights with the flesh. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak (Matthew 26:41).

Psalm 119:105 says, "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." It guides us through life and teaches us the right path to follow. If you don't know the scriptures, it is easier to sin, because you don't know what God expects of you. Mark 12:24 says, "And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God?" Proverbs 14:12 says, "There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death." So I think it is very important to understand what God thinks is right and what he considers wrong.

The Lord gave the word: Great was the company of those that publish it (Psalm 68:11). The word was given to holy men to write. They wrote what God had given them as they were moved by the Holy Spirit (2 Peter 1:21). The word of God has been preserved for us. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance; as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake (1 Thessalonians 1:5). This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success (Joshua 1:8).

### Chapter Sixteen: Redeeming the Time

God warns us that judgment is coming and to redeem the times. What this means to the Christian is that our days on this earth are few. It is a glorious and happy occasion to know that God will come and rapture his church and that we will ever be with him (1 Thessalonians 4:17). "Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord."

The Lord is waiting on the remaining people to be saved that will accept him. 2 Peter 3:9 says, "The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance." 2 Peter 3:10 says, "But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up."

Judgment is coming and now is the time to repent and accept Jesus as your Lord. For in this day in age, evil is all around us. We need to ask for God's forgiveness today and repent from our sins. 2 Corinthians 6:2 says, "Now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation." We must not wait and say "tomorrow I will repent or let me go first and clean myself up and then I will repent." You are not able to clean yourself from your sins, you are as a filthy rag in the eyes of God without Jesus. But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousness are as filthy rags: (Isaiah 64:6). Allow God to save you and make you clean. Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool – (Isaiah 1:18).

The Bible tells us that in the last days, there are going to be mockers of God "How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time, who should walk after their own ungodly lusts. These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit," (Jude 1:18,19).

Today sin is masked. It appears to be glamorous and desirable. We should be aware that sin doesn't usually represent itself as evil. Satan has blinded people's eyes that they cannot see sin for what it is. He wants to fool people into believing something that is not true. "In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them- (2 Corinthians 4:4,5). That is why it is important to read your Bible and attend church. Hebrews 10:25 says, "Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching."

1 Thessalonians 5:23 says, that if we forsake our sins and turn to Jesus, we can be found blameless, "And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ."

But, if you continue in your sin, you will be judged. 1 Corinthians 6: 9,10 says, "Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God."

Galatians 6:7,8 says that whatever we do on this earth, we will receive a reward, whether good or bad. "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. 1 Corinthians 15:50 says, "Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption." So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin (Romans 7:25).

So one day, God will judge this earth and deliver his servants into a better place called Heaven. 1 Corinthians 2:9, "But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him."

Revelation 19:11 says, "And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war." Revelation 19:14,15 says, "And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God."

If only the ones who trust in Jesus go to Heaven, where are the ones who don't accept Jesus go? Psalm 9:17 says, "The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God." Matthew 10:28 says, "And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell."

### Chapter Seventeen: Jesus- The Lamb of God

If you want to become closer to God, then you must accept Jesus as God's son. First, look at who Jesus is. Jesus is the son of God. He had a miraculous birth. Matthew 1:18 says, "Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost." Second, Jesus loved all and showed compassion for all the people of the earth. Third, he was our teacher ---he teaches us and all the world what to do to receive salvation. 1 John 1:9 says, "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." Romans 3:22 says, "Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference: For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God; Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus." 1 John 5:11 says, "This is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his son." Last, he is powerful and can command angels. Matthew 26:53 says that he could call twelve legions of angels to help him. A legion is represented as many. In Mark Chapter Five, we know that a legion has to be at least two thousand. So that is a lot of angels.

Jesus was born in Bethlehem, a city known as the birthplace of Jesus and King David. It is a predominately Christian Palestinian city just south of Jerusalem. Therefore he was not English, Spanish, Mexican, Irish, etc.... He was of that descent. He was not prejudice. Acts 10:34 says that God is no respecter of persons. He loved the poor as much as the wealthy.

Jesus should be our main example to follow when it comes to anything in life. Whether you question your existence, reason for living, or how to act in life. Jesus is our foundation, our example to follow: 1 Corinthians 3:11 says, "For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ." 1 Peter 2:21 says, "For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps." Ephesians 2:20 says, "And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone." To see why Jesus is so important in the believer's hearts lets look at who he is. 1 Corinthians 15:3 tells us that he was born to die for the sins of the world.

Jesus loved all people, not just one group of people. Isaiah 53:5,7 says, "But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth." Jesus is truly the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world (John 1:29).

Why is Jesus considered the Lamb of God? To explain this, lets look at the main reason he had to die on the cross for mankind. Years ago God gave Moses and the children of Israel an ordinance to follow. The children of Israel were in bondage as slaves in Egypt. God chose Moses to bring his people out of bondage and bring them into a new land. The Pharoah of Egypt refused to let the people go, so God caused plagues to come upon Egypt, therefore warning the Pharoah. One plague was that the first-born of men would die. God told the Israelites that they could sacrifice a Lamb without spot or blemish and smear the blood upon their doorpost at a certain time. During Passover, if they had the blood on their doorpost, their firstborn would be spared. (Exodus 12:1-13). So the Israelites did as God commanded and none of their people were killed.

Then when the Israelites were freed from Egypt, God told them to continue this ordinance throughout their generations (Exodus 12:14 and Leviticus 17:11). He often reminded Moses and his people of this ordinance and told them that the blood was an atonement for the soul. So the Israelites carried out this ordinance for many years. Then God sent a lamb, which was Jesus Christ, as the atonement for sin. 1 Peter 1:19 says that we are redeemed by "the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot."

Why was Christ able to die for our sins? He was able to be the sacrifice because he was without blemish; he was without sin (1 Peter 1:19, Hebrews 4:14,15 and Hebrews 7:26). God said that without shedding of blood is no remission of sins (Hebrews 9:22.) His blood was able to cover the sins of many (Hebrews 9:28, Hebrews 10:10-12 and 1 John 2:2). Christ died on a cross for the world's sins and arose from the grave after three days (1 Corinthians 15:3,4). Jesus didn't do anything wrong. He died on a cross for our sins instead of his own.

Even though he was beaten, mocked and crucified, he forgave us. He is the greatest example of how we ought to forgive others. He shows us how to love others too. He is the same today as yesterday (Hebrews 13:8). Jesus doesn't change with the years. If he didn't accept things years ago, he still doesn't. Malachi 3:6 says, "For I am the Lord, I change not."

### Chapter Eighteen: Become a Living Sacrifice

God tells us that he wants us to be a living sacrifice for him. Romans 12:1,2 says, "I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.

And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God."

You might ask, how can I become a living sacrifice for God. You must first be a child of God. If you haven't accepted him as your Savior by now, then I suggest you pray and ask him into your heart, and he will save you. Then, give your life to God by devoting your time and energy into his service. I cannot tell you exactly how to do this. I can give you examples of how to be a living sacrifice. You might surrender to preach, you might become a teacher, a missionary, or writer like me. You can dedicate your life to serving others such as a doctor or nurse. You can give your time to helping others through mission trips or organizing activities for youth. You can help others by collecting donations for the poor or sick. Or you can be a volunteer at a local community organization, hospital or homeless shelter. The list goes on and on.

To be a living sacrifice, one must give their life for the service of others. Don't do things for money or gratitude but for God. Become dead unto sin, and alive unto God (Romans 6:11). If you want to serve Christ, then become his servant of righteousness.

Christ was crucified on a cross for you, so why not sacrifice something for him. Paul said in Galatians 2:20, "I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me." Romans 6:6 says, "Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin." Romans 6:11 says, "Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord."

Whatever you choose to serve in this world, will be what you become obedient unto. Romans 6:16 says, Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servant ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness." It is important for you to understand that what you do in this life reflects who you are. Do you devote your time to Christ? If you are a Christian, God dwells in you. 1 Corinthians 3:16 says, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you."

1 Corinthians 3:9 says, " For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building." God called you his temple and called you holy. So do not let anyone try to discourage you and tell you that you are not good enough. 1 John 3:1 tells us that God calls us his sons. What God has called, no man can rebuke. Philippians 2:15 says, "That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world."

I urge you to become a living sacrifice for God today. Do his commandments and obey his laws. Have faith in him and he will guide you. James 2:18 says, "Shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works. "Without faith it is impossible to please God", Hebrews 11:6.

The closer you get to God, the closer he will get to you. To stay focused on the task at hand, you must continue in prayer and reading his word. It will give you the power to move forward no matter what comes your way. Allow some time for worship and praise. Read Chapter Twenty-one for more on this.

A living sacrifice is one who takes up their cross and bears it daily. They don't live for themselves but for others. They sacrifice their time and effort for others. They don't worry about money or shelter ---God will provide. They focus their energy on doing God's will. Discover what God's will is for your life. Then, put your time and energy into that and you will not be sorry. I didn't say you will never be discouraged because if you are living for God, you will be discouraged. Satan will send snares your way to keep you from completing his work. Keep moving forward and allow God's strength to help you.

### Chapter Nineteen: God's Grace

Someone could talk about God's grace for a while and not cover the whole topic. God is a forgiving God. We are all sinners and don't deserve the grace of God. Grace is unmeritable favor. Grace is when we receive the love, kindness, pardon and favor of God. It is unearned forgiveness of God. Ephesians 2:8-9 says, "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast."

When someone sins, and God forgives them, that is grace. God is without sin and hates it. God sent his only begotten son to die for the sins of the world. After you accept his son, then God forgives you of your sin. He loves us enough to forgive us when we ask. We are not perfect, but God knows this. That is why he give us grace. He tells us in Ephesians 2:2 that we were once the children of disobedience. We fulfilled the lust of the flesh, and the desires of our mind. We were the children of wrath. "But God, who is rich in mercy, for this great love wherewith he loved us, Even when we were dead in our sins, hath quickened us together with Christ," (Ephesians 2:4,5). "He is longsuffering, not willing that any should perish," (2 Peter 3:9).

There is nothing you can do to lose God's grace, unless you totally deny him. Mark 3:29 says, "But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation." That is the only sin that God does not forgive. He redeems us by his grace through Jesus Christ, (Romans 3:24).

If we believe in his son's death on the cross and ask for his forgiveness, than we become sons and daughters of God --- joint heirs with Christ (Romans 8:17). Romans 4:5 tells us that God justifies the ungodly through their belief in Christ. Their faith is counted for righteousness. Romans 6:14 tells us, "For Sin shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not under the law, but under grace." God gave us his word and his commandments through the Bible to teach us what is considered wrong. God didn't give you a license to sin but he know that we live in the flesh, and therefore we are going to make mistakes. When we make mistakes we are to ask for his forgiveness and he will forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness (1 John 1:9). God teaches us in Romans 5:20, "Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound."

### Chapter Twenty: God Loves a Cheerful Giver

Give unto others, for God loves a cheerful giver (2 Corinthians 9:7). God tells us many times how important it is to give to others. We should all learn how to give by God's example; he gave his only begotten son, so we may have eternal life. I urge you to find ways to give to others. Giving doesn't always mean giving money to someone in need; it can be giving of your time. To give means to freely transfer the possession of (something) to (someone); hand over to. Another definition of giving means to endure the loss of; sacrifice. Jesus gave his life as a sacrifice for the sins of the world.

Give unto others and expect nothing back in return. Do not let others know what you have done. Give in secret and you will receive a reward in Heaven. Luke 6:35 says, But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. Giving should be done with charity (1 Corinthians 13:3).

Luke 6:38 says, "Give and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom." God will give back to us what we have given to others. This shouldn't be the only reason you give to someone.

Give the gift of the gospel to others (1 Peter 4:10). If you love others you want them to receive the gift of salvation. Romans 6:23 says, For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. There is no greater gift to give than that of your only son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life (John 3:16).

Prayer can be a great gift to give someone. If someone is hurting or in the need of God, prayer can be just want they need. Sometimes people cannot pray for themselves. They could be in a hospital unable to pray. Give the gift of prayer and ask others to help you pray for someone this season.

Matthew 19:21 says, "If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in Heaven." Jesus was talking to a rich young man who claimed that he followed all the commandments of the Bible. Jesus was trying to teach him that his heart wasn't pure. He isn't telling everyone that they must sell all that they have to go to Heaven. Jesus wants us to care for the needs of others. Whatever we give on this earth should be because we truly care for others. One day, God will give us all things to enjoy in Heaven.

God tells us not lay up treasures upon this earth, but lay up for yourselves treasures in Heaven (Matthew 6:19). But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal, (Matthew 6:20). God has prepared a beautiful Heaven for his people. John 14:2,3 says, "In my Father's house are many mansions: If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also."

### Chapter Twenty-One: Praise and Worship

God deserves your praise and expects you to worship him. Psalm 66:1,2 says, "Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands. Sing forth the honour of his name: Make his praise glorious." We should praise the Lord for his mercy and for his righteousness. Give thanks for the grace that he has given us. Thank the Lord through song for his wonderful gift of his beloved son, Jesus. Psalm 67:3 says, "Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee."

Everyone on the earth needs to praise the Lord for his love. He has given us all things to enjoy. Psalm 148:13 says, "Let them praise the name of the Lord: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven." God commanded the creation and it was formed from his voice. He spoke and man was created. He gave life to all the animals and plants on the earth. He created the sun, moon and stars. "Without him was not anything made that was made," John 1:3.

God deserves praise from his saints because he called us out from our unrighteousness. If we have accepted Christ as our savior, we are now part of his family. He has made us heirs of God ---joint heirs with Christ (Romans 8:17). "Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light," 1 Peter 2:9.

Psalm 100:1,2 tells us, that we should sing unto the Lord. "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with singing." Psalm 95:6 tells us, "O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord our maker." To truly praise God the way we need to we need to have a church to go to. There is no better place to worship God than in his sanctuary. God told the people of Israel in Exodus 25:8 that he wanted them to build a sanctuary where he could abide. We can worship and praise God anywhere but it is better to have other believers worshipping together with you. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them (Matthew 18:20).

God wants us to have fellowship with other believers. It helps us to stay focused on what we should do. By going to church it feeds our spiritual needs instead of our fleshly needs. "That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ," 1 John 1:3. When Jesus left his disciples on the earth, they continued with fellowship and breaking bread ---eating together (Acts 2:42).

If you can't worship God on this earth, how are you going to worship him in Heaven? God understands that sometimes you might have other ties that keep us away from the house of God, such as work. But, you should try to make provisions to be off on Sundays. I have worked many jobs that took me away from church. Every time I had to work on Sunday, I was grieved. I didn't like missing church, so I decided that if my job required me to work on Sundays, then I found another job. Not everyone can do this, but you can look for another job while you work. Attending church helps you grow spiritually so that you can take a closer walk with God.

If you never praise and worship God or attend church, then you will never reach the journey toward God that you are seeking. Don't just attend church once a month or on special holidays such as Christmas or Easter. Attend church on a regular basis. Believe me you will be much happier in church than if you didn't attend. Hebrews 10:25 says, "Forsake not the assembling of ourselves together, but exhorting one another: And so much more as ye see the day approaching." If you are home bound and cannot get out of the house, then I suggest getting a television. Then, find a good station to watch on Sundays. God knows your heart and he knows that you cannot go. Set a time at home to praise him through prayer and song.

If you look around, times are getting worse. It is hard to stay focused on God because of the cares of this life that try to choke us. It is hard to tell others about Christ because people mock and ridicule you for serving the Lord. People don't want to listen to the truth. There are so many false religions out there. Satan has blinded people where they are confused and don't know who to listen to.

One time my sister and I went door to door witnessing. One man tried to get his dog to bite us. Then when we told him exactly who we were serving and that we were not a cult, he said that he was sorry. Let me tell you that any religion that does not tell you about Jesus, the son of God, is a false religion.

Be careful who you listen to. There are many false cults, false religions out there. They are strong in their beliefs and will try to persuade you to believing a lie. There are Agnostic people who believe in a higher power but not God and not Jesus Christ. Satan has devil worshippers out there that are working against Christians.

Just remember to praise and worship the true God, who is the Father in Heaven. He is the creator of all. He deserves all your honor and praise and glory. Exodus 20:3,5 tells us, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me."

Be careful what you set your affection on. Anything can become a god to you if you focus all your attention on it. If you put anything before God it become an idol. Remember that God is a jealous God. He want you to focus your affections on him.

### Chapter Twenty-two: Living For Others

One of the greatest things we can do in this life is to live for others. God tells us that he wants us to help those who are in need. There are several things you can do for others. You can devote time to help someone in need. If you know that someone needs something to eat and you are able to help them, then I suggest you do so. For example, your neighbor doesn't have a car but tells you that they need some groceries, why not take them to the store. Helping others doesn't always have to be a big project but a thoughtful one.

Next, you can give money or a clothing donation to someone in need, such as a charity. Starting out, I suggest finding an organization that you have heard about; where you know exactly where the money is going. Even if you give to someone that lied to you about needing the money, God will still bless you. You still did your part to help someone.

Don't forget to give to your local church. Without offerings and tithes, the church cannot pay its bills. You can give to your church by helping out with the cleaning. Someone has to clean the bathrooms.

If you truly want to live for others, then quit worrying about yourself. Don't serve someone because you have to. Serve someone because you want to. You will not receive a reward for doing things out of negativism. Don't worry about how much time it is going to take you or who will see you helping someone. Don't do things grudgingly. Do things because you have an earnest desire to help someone. Don't keep putting off things you can do today.

If you know anything about the Bible, you can teach someone. Don't pick a topic you don't know anything about. Start with something you know and God will help you. When I was twenty, I started teaching a preschool class at church. I started out teaching about the creation in Genesis. I was eager to learn and help out. I told the preacher that I was available and he found a class for me. Or you can witness to someone and share the gospel to others. You can hand out Bible tracts from your church that has the plan of salvation on them.

Praying for someone's needs can be a service for God. Sometimes people can't pray for themselves. They might not know how to pray or know that they need prayer in their life. When my dad was sick in the hospital, he was in a comatose state. He couldn't pray for himself and he needed the support of others to pray for him. You can start a prayer chain by giving out your number and asking for volunteers that will agree to pray for others. When someone calls you, you start the prayer chain by calling the first person on the list. Then they are to call the next person and so on. In order for this to be successful, you need to keep the list up and make sure everyone has a list. Make sure their numbers are correct. So be ready to pray, because people need prayers everyday.

Listening to others can be an encouragement and a great help. Sometimes people just need a friend or someone to talk to. You can visit a nursing home and give your time to talk with the elderly. There are plenty of elderly people who don't have anyone to talk to. Just because they are old, doesn't mean they don't have anything to say. They get lonely too and need a friend to listen to them. Sometimes people have burdens that they may need advice on.

There are so many ways you can give to others. Opening a door for a stranger at a store, buying a meal for someone at a restaurant, or giving a helping hand to carry groceries for someone. Just keep in mind that everyone will not accept your generosity so don't get offended if they don't want your help.

When you help someone, don't go around announcing it to everyone. Let the things you do be in secret and God will reward you for it. Don't do things for recognition or to brag about them. Do things because you want to help others and you will receive a reward one day. Set a good example and others will follow your lead. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you, (Matthew 7:12).

Now is the time that we should try to help those that are weak and unable to care for themselves. Some elderly people live alone and try to make it day to day. They may not have family that helps them. I want to encourage you to do something for someone else today.

### Chapter Twenty-Three: A Prideful Heart

A person with a prideful heart lacks compassion. They usually look the other way when someone is in need. Pride is defined two ways in dictionaries. One is a positive type of pride and the other is negative. A positive type is when one is honored by one's accomplishments whether it is himself or his children. The negative aspect of pride is feeling a high regard or self esteem for oneself which makes one have an ego or thoughts of self entitlement making them appear arrogant. This is the type of pride that God hates. Pride will keep us from humility which is the complete opposite. Humility is a quality of being modest, lacking pretense, not thinking oneself is superior to others. Some look at humility as being timid and lacking self esteem.

Humility is an honorable trait that can help everyone in all aspects of their lives. Without humility it is impossible to love others the way they should be loved. We cannot love others because we care only for our own happiness and not the happiness of others. Pride can be a stumbling block to others if we use it to overpass someone else's worth. Pride makes it hard for a sinner to receive Jesus Christ. To find out if you have pride in your life that needs to be resolved, lets ask ourselves the following questions.

  1. Are you one of those who thinks that you deserve more than someone else?

  1. Do you think you are better than another person?

  1. Do you think that you contribute to the world more than someone else?

  1. Do you turn up your nose at someone because of lack of fortune or the clothes they wear?

  1. Have you ever found yourself backing away from someone because you thought they were nasty?

  1. Do you think you deserve more than someone else? Do you look at other races as beneath you?

  1. Do you catch yourself hiding things from others because you think they will steal from you?

  1. Do you have a hard time accepting something from someone else because you think it is dirty or the person is dirty?

  1. Are you worried about what others think of you?

For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world, 1 John 2:16.

One day I was on my way to work and was listening to a sermon on the radio. The sermon was about having pride. Before I heard the sermon, I didn't really understand the whole meaning of pride. I thought pride was being high minded, thinking you were better than others. The preacher said that a proud person was always worried about what others thought of him. I see where that can be a form of pride that others don't consider pride. A proud person has to be the center of attention in a crowd. They like to be in charge. They want to be heard over others. They are always asking what they are getting out of something.

It is hard for a prideful person to rejoice when something good happens to someone else, such as a promotion, etc... It is hard for a prideful person to say they are sorry. They don't like to admit they are wrong. It is always someone else's fault. They always want to win an argument. James 4:6 says, "God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. In this present day, people look at pride as a virtue. For example: when a person goes for a job interview, the one who can out-talk someone else gets the job. The prideful person is one who acts like they have the most confidence that they can do the job, but it might not be the case. The humble who lowers their head and answers yes or no is overlooked and thought of as a weaker person.

Luke 18:10-14 tells us about two men who went to the temple to pray. One was full of pride and said to himself, "I thank God that I am not like these other sinners." He went on to tell what great things he had done. Then, there was a man who lowered his head and humbled himself. "But said, God be merciful to me a sinner. Jesus said this man went down justified and not the other one." The Bible says that the humble will be exalted and the prideful will be brought low. Proverbs 8:13 says, "The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride, and arrogancy and the evil way, and the forward mouth do I hate."

### Chapter Twenty- Four: Follow the Ordinances of Christ

A Christian should follow the ordinances of Jesus Christ. One ordinance of Jesus is Baptism. Baptism is an ordinance of Jesus Christ for the church. What is baptism and what does it represent. The first recording of Baptism was when John the Baptist baptized in the river Jordan, in Bethabara beyond Jordan. John was born to prepare the people for the coming of the Lord. Zacharias, his father and his mother were both righteous before God. Zacharias served as a priest in the days of Herod. He walked in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless (Luke 1:6). An angel appeared unto Zacharias to tell him that he would have a son. Luke 1:17 says, And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

John baptized and preached about the coming of the Lord. Then Jesus went down to the river to be baptized so he could set the example for us. John 1:28-34 says, These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me. And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.

"The usual form of baptism among the earliest Christians was for the candidate to be immersed, either totally (submerged completely under the water) or partially (standing or kneeling in water while water was poured on him or her" (Wikipedia online encyclopedia). When a person is Baptized, it represents a new person being raised from the water, and the sinful nature buried with Christ. Romans 6:4 says, Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. 1 Peter 3:21 says, "The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ."

### Poems of Encouragement

### What Has the Lord Done for Me

What has the Lord done for me?

When I was blind and lost in my might,

he lifted me us and showed me the light.

When I was poor and had nothing to eat,

he gave me food and helped my defeat.

When I was scared and sore afraid,

he gave me comfort and came to my aid.

When I had nothing and was in need,

He gave me money and helped indeed.

When I was lonely and needed a friend,

he was there comforting me with his hand.

When I had a problem, conflict or strife,

he gave me the answer and helped my life.

When I was sick or needed a rest,

his strength and power helped the best.

What has the Lord done for me?

He reached out his hands and died for me.

### Leaving A Good Legacy

Be the example for others to see,

put your mark on all the world.

A Christian with a good testimony to be,

one day receiving your reward.

Leave behind a legacy of faith to all,

be the example for your family always.

This will keep them strong in God's law,

helping them to stay faithful by your example.

Don't allow worldly things to enter your house,

monitor what you say and do.

Show love and kindness to your spouse,

For your light will shine for all to see.

Keep the word of God at all times,

reading to your family everyday.

If you do, they won't be caught with immoral crimes,

remembering things that you have taught them.

### Meditate and Pray

Fall on your knees and Pray.

Give time for prayer everyday.

When you arise each day, Pray

before you look out to see the sun's ray.

You can accomplish anything with prayer.

Upon Jesus, cast all your care.

Fall upon your knees and pray,

cast your burdens upon him today.

Jesus will stick closer than a brother,

He loves you like no other.

He will guide you when you pray,

toward the straight and narrow way.

Devote your time to meditate and pray,

before you close your eyes each day.

### The Master

He was always and will always be.

From far and near will he shield me.

Up above the clouds and blue,

his love for me shows through.

Jesus arose Lazarus from the dead.

From five loaves, the multitude was fed.

He bears me up if I dash my foot against a stone.

From my birth he loves me all the days long.

He protected Daniel in the Lion's den.

because Daniel stood against the king's sin.

He controls the sea, clouds and wind.

His mercy endureth until the end.

