

WHAT IS SALVATION?

PUBLISHED BY

JAMES BELL

DISTRIBUTED BY

SMASHWORDS

COPYRIGHT JAMES BELL 2016

WHAT IS SALVATION?

The most important series of events in a human beings' life happens in that very moment that we recognize our need of salvation from Hell AND we follow through by inviting Christ Jesus into our heart as our Savior.

The pasture of GOD's Kingdom is vast. But, the Gate is locked. And only Christ Jesus has the keys to that Gate. That is because Jesus is the KEY, Himself.

Anyone who accepts that gift of Eternal salvation from Hell may not have realized it but it was the Holy Spirit who walked them through what was once a locked Gate into a vast new Kingdom.

And, that Holy Spirit now abides within us and is not only our guide but also our intimate counselor unto revealing to us the hidden Kingdom Truth in the Word of GOD. It is the office of calling for the Holy Spirit to be our teacher, revealing to us all of the rights and benefits of a citizen of this Kingdom of GOD.

Jesus set us free indeed from condemnation of Hell and it is the Holy Spirit leads us into our liberties. And while we are citizens IN that Kingdom we are to occupy and represent that Kingdom to every one we come in contact with while we are here on earth.

As a citizen of that Spiritual Kingdom, there are no accidental meetings for a Child of GOD while they are here on earth. There are only Divine Appointments.

The Kingdom of GOD.

And once you have entered that Gate of Christ Jesus, it is impossible for any citizen of that Kingdom to go back and again become a citizen of this fallen world again. The only reason that it may appear as such is because that Child of GOD was not properly disciple. Irrelevant of discipleship, every Born again Christian is right now a fully vested citizen of the Kingdom of GOD with all of its rights and privileges.

Although we are not here illegally; yet still, because we are yet in our flesh and blood body, we strangers and aliens here. And the coolest thing about this entering through that Gate of Christ Jesus into the Kingdom of GOD is that GOD now showers each of us with many GIFTS.

It's just too bad that there was not someone to meet each new citizen at that Gate of Christ Jesus in order to teach each one of us about all of the different GIFTS that GOD showers a New Born baby Christian with and then guide them in how to enjoy every aspect of their citizenship of the Kingdom of GOD while we are here on earth.

And yes, I was being facetious. Facetious just means that I was treating a very serious situation with what some would consider inappropriate humor. We most certainly have been give just that when GOD gave us HIS indwelling Holy Spirit.

While salvation from Hell is that greatest gift of our citizenship, one of the GIFTS that GOD gives every New Born, BORN AGAIN Christian is HIS indwelling Holy Spirit who lives in us for that purpose of guiding and personally counseling us in our citizenship. AND at the end of every Born again Christian's life that very same Holy Spirit is going to purge us of all corruption and make us ready to actually reside bodily in that celestial realm of Heaven. GOD is ETERNAL and HIS Throne is outside of this pressure of time that is going on in our Cosmos. GOD knows our glorification is a done deal to HIM, (GOD being the power and the authority who designed it in the first place) and so, GOD, in HIS Grace, magnanimously has accredited to each New Born Christian the results of that Glorification back at the very moment they became a citizen of HIS Kingdom. Every believer has been translated into their position of a SAINT with GOD. What that means is that when the Holy Spirit culminates our redemption; that purging of all of our unrighteousness is going to make us completely SANCTIFIED unto even now being Saints with GOD. We are now JUSTIFIED in Christ Jesus unto being Saints in the Kingdom of GOD. We are become the Holy of Holies. And yes, some of us may not appear to others like we are such, nevertheless, this is a work of our GOD on behalf of HIS Children. Bear with me as I will go on and explain many more aspects of this new citizenship.

Now, it is time for every Child of GOD to learn how to be responsible to GOD and learn how to represent that new Kingdom that we are a fully vested citizen of.

Every citizen of THIS fallen world is going to keep right on going, carrying all by themselves that heavy weight of their inherited condemnation until they die and then they will go directly to HELL. This is not a joke. If you know for a fact that you have not accepted Jesus as your savior, and you want to avoid this punishment for your sin and have salvation from HELL, then what you need to do is first repent of your wicked ways, and confess to GOD that you know that you are a sinner who is bound under the condemnation of your Sin Nature that demands HELL. Then, thank GOD for sending Jesus to die in your place on that Cross of Calvary. And then, Invite Jesus to come live in your heart and be your Savior. Or you can say it however you feel led to because it is the intention of the heart acting upon faith that actuates your salvation. Relax, because Jesus will do all the work of birthing a brand new Spirit of Himself within your being. Now, you are become one of the Born again in Christ, and a fully vested citizen of the Kingdom of GOD's Heaven.

I am now a citizen of the Kingdom of Heaven, and it is now my reasonable service to become a trustworthy Ambassador of that Kingdom to the citizens of this fallen world. Well, not to throw water on your fire, but the majority of Christianity is not representing so well.

In fact, many are still living as though they are still fallen citizens of this wicked world.

And to top that off, GOD has already illustrated to each New Born Christian how they are supposed to live in this fallen world. GOD gives to each New Born Christian a definite portion of their Everlasting Life. That's exactly why every baby Christian is so full of zeal when they first enter through that Gate into the Kingdom of GOD. They are the Prodigal Son. But, sad to say, because no maturing Christian is/was there to explain to them exactly how to make that intimate direct connection with their Source of supply, that New Born Christian is going to ever, so slowly, dwindle back down to a common level of dried up spirituality that is currently common among unknowledgeable Christians around them. This is such a sad situation that I am moved deeply to write this letter to the world.

After a new born Christian has dwindled and dried up of that portion of their inheritance they are going to slowly become the second Son who stayed at home and settled into a Fruitless, joyless situation. But, it does not haft to be that way.

Besides this book I have written another letter, entitled, "The all new ways of life in the Spirit." It is free to anyone who wants or needs it.

We now stand in Grace with GOD, until HE brings each one of us to our new HOME in HIS actual presence that Jesus, the Groom, is preparing for His Bride.

As a Born again Christian, each one of us is a wise virgin and corporately, we are the Bride of Christ. And the moment that Jesus is finished with His work in Heaven, the Father is going to approve of such and then tell Jesus; "Go get your Bride and bring Her home."

For the Bride it will be joyous. For this fallen world it will usher in what is called, "The Great Tribulation." This is where the wrath of GOD is poured out upon all of the inhabitants of the earth.

If you know anyone who has yet to become a Born again Christian, suggest to them a copy of this letter to the inhabitants of this world.

For a Born again Christian, Jesus has already finished His work of salvation from Hell when He died on that Cross of Calvary. Jesus is not only the Key, to that gate into the Kingdom of GOD and our future HOME IN HEAVEN, but after the resurrection, Jesus owns the Keys of death and Hell which Christ had taken back from Satan, who took them from Adam when he sinned in the Garden of Eden. And while, yes; Jesus did this for everybody in His propitiation, but only those who come to Jesus by faith alone, will receive that Newness of Eternal and Everlasting Life. Jesus exercised His authority over Hell when He used those keys for each lost human, the very instant that whosoever will comes to Him by faith: and Jesus unlocks that prison of death and Hell for them, setting them free indeed from any future judgment in Hell for their Sin Nature and the torment there for their committed iniquities and transgressions.

Jesus has already suffered both that torment for our committed sins and transgressions, and death of Hell for our Sin Nature. Through the complete work of Christ Jesus whosoever will has now been set Free Indeed!

The instant that a citizen of THIS world is born, they inherit that curse of Adam which demands that condemnation of torment in Hell.

The very instant that any individual becomes one of the Born again, death in Hell is destroyed, and completely removed out of the equation between them and our Father GOD; whereby we are set free and then released to live out the rest of our life in that powerless shadow of death. And like King David, we can declare that 23rd Psalm for ourselves. Now, we have every right to begin inheriting the Kingdom of GOD within our being, even though we are yet here on earth. And that's really why GOD left us here when we became a fully vested citizen of HIS Kingdom. Christianity just does not comprehend the importance of their time here on earth. We are in school now, with the option of Everlasting Life being presented to us. How we respond determines so much in our Eternal future.

The condemnation of that curse of Adam demands not only separation from intimacy with the love and Holiness of GOD, but that death of the wicked, with its continued separation from the love and Holiness of GOD on into everlasting separation in the various torments of Hell. When we accept, and invite Jesus into our heart as Savior, we become a New Born citizen of the Kingdom of GOD, AND are now set free from that curse of Adam. That death of the wicked has been answered in Christ and we now have Eternal Life with GOD.

It is of vital importance to our spiritual potential that we learn this truth, and become persuaded in the fact that our Eternal salvation is not a stand-alone possession, nor is it somehow perishable.

Any teaching contrary to what I have just said is pagan in nature. It is actually the potential prosperity of our Everlasting Life that is at odds of risk here. That is why I wrote "The all new ways of life in the Spirit." It gives in great detail as much as I know about our Everlasting Life and several concrete ways to begin that journey with the Holy Spirit.

Allow me to now begin to document and certify all I have said so far.

If a Christian thinks or has been taught that they can for any reason or sin somehow lose their salvation, and have not been delivered from that error, then, they are wavering, and they will continue to waver. And that error in understanding is going to block them and hinder that Born again Christian from relaxing in the Eternal security of their salvation from Hell. That is but one aspect of double-mindedness.

James 1:5-8 tells us, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of GOD who giveth to all men liberally.

But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the LORD. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways."

Once we become persuaded by the Holy Spirit in the Kingdom Truth of our perfect security of salvation we begin to move beyond that gated doorway into the very real pasture of our citizenship. This is how we enter into that promise of GOD's rest. I intend to repeat this verse later.

Hebrews 4:1, "Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into HIS rest, any of you should seem to come short of it."

That rest in the finished work of Christ while He was on earth is integral, and is exactly what is necessary for a Christian to then be able to begin intimately accepting, embracing, and then employing in order to experience and enjoy the fullness of their Everlasting inheritance while they are here on earth. That Kingdom understanding of that distinct yet connected difference between our Eternal Life in Heaven and our Everlasting Life we can inherit within while we are here on earth is probably one of the biggest sources of confusion in the teaching of Christian-dom.

It is the job of our spiritual enemies to keep every Christian from becoming confident in their Eternal security. It is the job of our enemies to steal, kill, and destroy any indications that we are gaining confidence in our Eternal Life and any movements we may make in the direction of our inheritance of Everlasting Life.

If he can succeed then some will not gain that understanding of how we can now contend for the benefits of our Everlasting Life while we are yet aliens here on earth. The greatest majority of Christianity is still living in spiritual confusion because that enemy has been so successful. As you can see, my hope is to an influence in changing this situation.

As long as a Christian is struggling with that fear of being able to somehow lose their salvation they are not going to move beyond the entrance of that wide gate or doorway of salvation, on to the greater things that are theirs in the Kingdom of GOD.

This is especially true of the love of GOD.

If you truly desire to be like Jesus, there are many elements that GOD has provided to every one of HIS Children for us to employ, that could be operating simultaneously to wash, cleanse, heal, and quicken our inner man unto genuinely becoming a wholesome, Fruitful Branch.

But, this cannot happen in its fullness until a Born again Christian becomes persuaded in the security of their Salvation from Hell unto now possessing their Eternal Life in that celestial dimension of Heaven. It is imperative for EVERY Born again Christian to learn exactly how to practice that responsibility of proper mental hygiene for their soul. We do this through learning how to interact with the Holiness of GOD in specific ways.

Eventually, all of these elements of GOD's Holiness should bring anyone lacking this understanding, to that persuasion that they have Eternal security in their Salvation. Anyone who thinks or even teaches that it is possible for a Born again Christian to somehow lose their salvation is yet, still living in the confusion of double-mindedness. That sanctification process is interaction with GOD and HIS Holiness that begins to build up not just our Faith but it leads us, changing us from the inside out into a vessel of honor that can now be trusted and used for GOD's purposes. Religion works from the opposite direction of the outside inward in an effort to force mental directed physical change on the flesh hoping that it will somehow bring about a Spiritual quickening of some sort. That is sowing to the flesh and many Christians are still stuck solely in this type of religious practice. My suggestion is do not think about changing that, but, only begin to add to that the practices of proper mental soul hygiene and let the Holy Spirit take it from there. If you persevere, you can expect a harvest.

Hebrews 12:12-15, "Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees; And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.

Follow peace with all men, and Holiness, without which no man shall see the LORD: Looking diligently lest any man fail of the Grace of GOD; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, thereby many be defiled;"

Basically, thinking that it is possible for a Born again Christian to somehow lose their salvation is a root of bitterness and in many cases, it becomes a stronghold guarded by their own sentimentality. Only GOD can open that stronghold and clean out that root of bitterness.

This is not addressing those thoughts that a Born again Christian can experience in doubting their salvation. That is a totally different situation that I will address later.

Once you have accepted and invited Jesus into your heart as Savior, you have Eternal salvation from that condemnation of your Sin Nature that demands punishment in Hell. You have been birthed into the Kingdom of GOD and Eternal Life with GOD in Heaven is now your heritage and your ONLY possible future destiny. You are perfect in your position of redeemed and are to GOD a Saint. Ephesians 2:19, "Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the SAINTS, and of the household of GOD;"

Now, through sanctification, by Holiness, GOD is manifested in you. This is how we see the LORD; Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.

This Glorifies GOD within us for others to witness as greater changes are made and we grow in Faith unto that FAITH that was at one time delivered to the early Saints.

Hebrews 5:9, "And being made perfect, He became the author of Eternal Salvation unto all them that obey Him;"

To obey Him, meaning GOD, is to accept and invite Jesus Christ into our being, as our own personal Savior.

Quite simply, if anyone is lost, there is no question in their mind that they are lost. This is no doubt whatsoever, and they know for a fact that they have never made any kind of profession of faith in Jesus or invited Him into their heart as Savior.

If there is any question in your mind about Salvation or whether or not you are saved, then that tells me that sometime in your past you made a profession of faith in the name of Jesus.

What was lacking then was discipleship by a more advanced spiritual mentor. One thing is for sure. You cannot teach what you do not have. And while we are to contend, nobody has anything of the Spirit that was not given to them by GOD.

You have already obeyed Jesus and you have been redeemed back to GOD. For a Born again Christian, there are many indicators of the fact that you indeed, are redeemed, and that Jesus lives in your heart. I will reveal those indicators in the future.

If you are lost to GOD and under that condemnation of your Sin Nature that demands continued separation from GOD on into that Everlasting punishment in Hell, then for you, the only way to obey is to first agree and accept the fact that Jesus is indeed Christ your redeemer, and then, invite Jesus into your heart as Savior and embrace the LORD more every day. You can do that right now by inviting Jesus to come and live in your heart today as Savior. GOD is never mistaken as to whether or not you are addressing HIM. We are asking GOD to give us Jesus. Jesus will do all the rest for you. After all, it is His Salvation and Jesus does all of the work involved. Then you can follow Jesus in baptism. And start learning how to inherit your new Kingdom within through sanctification. Every Christian needs to learn, "The all new ways of Life in the Spirit."

When you accept and invite Jesus into your heart as Savior, Jesus will come into your heart and birth a brand new Spirit of Himself within you, whereby, you will become alive in the Spirit realm and one of the "Born again."

Our Salvation from Hell is now become a done deal, and we now have that perfect security of Eternal Life in Heaven with GOD.

The moment that a person invites Jesus into their heart as Savior, GOD instantly translates them into HIS family blood-line and gives to them a portion of their inheritance of Everlasting Life inheritance. If a new born Christian is properly disciple in How to walk in and employ all of the aspects of GOD within through that sanctification process then they can not only maintain but persevere unto witnessing even greater Fruits of the Spirit within them. But, alas, all too soon that zeal of a new born Christian wanes and dries up leaving them withered and Fruitless. The potential of our Eternal Life is not perishable. But, the prosperity and that Fruitfulness of our Everlasting Life is perishable and should be guarded at all costs, because it is the most precious and eternally valuable treasures we can gain in this life.

Becoming one of the Born again with its benefit of salvation is just where we enter through that wide gate onto that broad Highway of Grace; and there are so many more benefits to learn about. Such as the regeneration through sanctification of those old wounded conditions of destruction in our soul that we carry over into this new Life that are going to keep fueling, pressuring and compelling us to commit sin. This is just one reason GOD knew we would need and gave us HIS indwelling Holy Spirit to abide in us, and counsel us, and then Glorify us; purging us of all corruption when we pass. Every Born again Christian gets the same salvation unto Heaven. What we do with that free gift after we have it is up to us. Every Child of GOD gets to determine the level of intimacy they enjoy in their own personal relationship with their Father GOD.

Struggling to be a good Christian who is Spiritually Fruit-full while allowing those old conditions to seethe and fume in our inner man is virtually impossible.

Sanctification by the Holiness of GOD works for every Born again Christian no matter where they may be in their relationship with GOD. Your Salvation from Hell is just one of the many benefits of your new citizenship that are enveloped within that greater whole of what it means to be, "Born Again."

It is GOD's desire for every one of HIS redeemed Children to grow in Faith and become confident in their Eternal Salvation so that they can take advantage of the rights and privileges of their new Kingdom position. If anyone becomes Born again, they are even now, a fully vested citizen of Heaven, and are become a stranger and an alien to this world even though we continue to live here on earth. It is up to us whether we grow in Faith and sanctification and become an Ambassador, whereby others can see GOD. But, this cannot happen apart from the Holiness of our LORD.

Jesus is the Messiah of GOD, who being perfect and without sin, having no Sin Nature, died on that cross of Calvary and paid that death penalty for the sin of the whole world. Jesus Christ paid for every sin that would ever be committed by the whole of mankind, all in one offering as the spotless Lamb of GOD. This is how Jesus became the propitiation of all mankind.

How could He possibly do such a thing?

We must establish the Virgin birth in our understanding. Because GOD is the Father of Jesus, Jesus was born into this world without that curse of the Sin Nature. The Holy Spirit placed Jesus whole and intact within the Virgin Mary's womb before her time of menstruation had started. Because there was no seed of man or egg of woman involved, Christ Jesus, the Messiah of GOD was born into this physical existence, of innocent, unique blood, and without a Sin Nature.

In His sinless life Jesus Christ completely fulfilled every requirement that GOD demanded under that Old Testament Law perfectly, on our behalf because, [(WE do have a Sin Nature) and therefore, we were without any strength, (power to change our situation) and too weak in our flesh, (no abilities or faculties, actually stone cold dead)] and thereby has gained for us that Righteousness, through His perfect performance, that exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. Our best behavior either thinking we need to be good enough to come to and deserve Jesus, or afterwards trying to be the best person we can by our own self-discipline can never improve upon the perfect, finished work of The Lamb of GOD.

Once we have accepted that Jesus is the only begotten Son of GOD who died in our place for all of our sin, and we have embraced Him as our Savior, we gain that very Righteousness that Christ earned in His perfection, as our very own. We now possess that Righteousness that far exceeds the righteousness of the works of the scribes and Pharisees in their best efforts at obeying the Law of Moses. Now, we have entered into the Kingdom by that Righteousness of Christ's innocence. And I will take this a step farther.

In Romans 10:4 it says, "For Christ is the end of the Law for Righteousness to every one that believeth." Having now obtained that Righteousness that exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, I can now find my rest in Christ Jesus. It is only by the Grace of GOD and because OF the Righteousness of Christ Jesus that we can now enter into the Kingdom of GOD. Now GOD can add to us all the other things that are ours in the Kingdom.

In Matthew 6:33 Jesus instructs us, "But seek ye first the Kingdom of GOD, and HIS RIGHTEOUSNESS; and all these things shall be added unto you."

We must see the difference in the value of the things of this world that we might be called upon to give up, in exchange for the invaluable things of the Kingdom. In some cases, this might seem to us like cutting off a hand or foot, or even like gouging out an eye. In essence, we cannot fathom gouging out an eye that we adore and cannot see ourselves being able to even live without. And while Jesus was addressing the Jews under the Old Testament, when it was possible to go to Hell for lacking faith in that coming Messiah and His redemption as the Lamb of GOD; the fundamental Spiritual principle still applies to our Kingdom potential prosperity.

Matthew 5:29 and 30, "And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell."

Philippians 3:8 and 9, "Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my LORD: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ, And be found in Him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the Law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the RIGHTEOUSNESS which is of GOD by faith:"

Today, in this New Testament, we have been given an even greater enlightenment towards our responsibilities of recognizing and working towards weeding out anything that can keep us from being vessels of honor and Fruitful Branches.

In Colossians 3:1-10, "If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of GOD.

Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in GOD.

When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with Him in Glory.

Mortify therefore your members which are upon earth; fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry: For which things' sake the wrath of GOD cometh on the Children of disobedience: In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.

But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communications out of your mouth.

Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds; And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of Him that created Him:"

Romans 1:17 tells us, "For therein is the RIGHTEOUSNESS of GOD revealed from Faith to FAITH: as it is written, The JUST shall live by Faith."

How are the unjust, Justified?

We are justified, and translated into Grace with GOD purely by the innocent blood of Christ Jesus.

It is that condemnation of the wrath of GOD for our Sin Nature that demands punishment in Hell. Jesus took that wrath upon Himself, and died in our place.

Romans 5:8-10, But GOD commendeth HIS love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

Much more then, being now justified by His Blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him.

For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to GOD by the death of HIS Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life."

We must understand that the Justified now live by Faith.

Romans 1:17, For therein is the RIGHTEOUSNESS of GOD revealed from Faith to FAITH: as it is written, The JUST shall live by FAITH."

Galatians 2:16, Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the Law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the Law: for by the works of the Law shall no flesh be justified."

Romans 5:1, "Therfore being justified by faith, we have peace with GOD through our LORD Jesus Christ:"

And now, we have not only entered into the Kingdom of GOD by faith in the Righteousness of Christ Jesus, but that now, even now, we have been given, and established in the Kingdom of Heaven by the RIGHTEOUSNESS of GOD, HIMSELF. As we grow in Faith the RIGHTEOUSNESS of GOD is revealed to us more and more. How can anyone improve upon that by their own efforts of trying to be a good person? It is impossible. Why not rest in the finished work of Christ's redemption, and learn how to interact with GOD and experience HIS Holiness and all that it can accomplish within? That is exactly what GOD wants you to do. This is how we live by Faith unto that FAITH that was once delivered to the Saints.

One of the surest ways for a Born again Christian to experience the prosperity of that sanctification process in their inner man is by declaring the scriptures we are reading out loud back to GOD.

So simple, and yet many have never considered it before.

This is Guaranteed by GOD to do a work in your inner man. This is how we become the sower of the seed. Those who make that diligent effort to sow bountifully will reap a bountiful harvest, in due season. What kind of harvest. A harvest of Everlasting Life. This is what the parable of the Sower and the Seed is telling us. This is but one way to sow to the Spirit. Trying to act like a Christian is mocking GOD. But, if we sow to the Spirit, the Holiness of GOD will be the power that quickens us unto righteousness. And once we are reaping this type of harvest, our self-discipline will go through an enhancement.

Galatians 6:7-9, "Be not deceived; GOD is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.

For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the spirit shall of the Spirit reap Life Everlasting.

And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not."

Declaring the scriptures out loud back to GOD is sowing to the spirit, and it is the Holy Spirit that gives us that harvest of Life Everlasting within our being.

Because Jesus has paid our debt for sin, there can never be a future Judgement from GOD for anyone who accepts WHO Jesus is as their Savior.

Grace means that EVERY sin we will ever commit in the whole of our lifetime has been paid for, and we now stand as the Justified, (Meaning that we are positioned in Christ as though we have never sinned in our past and never will sin again in our future) who now are accredited with that eventual Glorification unto perfect Sanctification, (purged by the Holy Spirit of all corruption in that culmination of our redemption) and in that that position of the Sanctified; we can now contend for the healing of our woundedness by appropriating that Grace of GOD within our soul, asking for and receiving forgiveness and healing in relation to those conditions of unrighteousness. If you add to this that declaring of the scriptures out loud for our sanctification within our inner man, you have a pretty powerful combination. For a Born again Christian, once we are established IN Heaven, we will experience an evaluation for how we handled the Word and cooperated with the Holy Spirit. This is where our works are evaluated of what root source they are of. If they are of Holiness then when they are tried by that Holy fire, there will be a sure reward.

One of the most important things we CAN do is to do whatever it takes to develop as much intimacy with the Holy Spirit as we possibly can.

This is not a matter for debate. This is crucial. It is essential.

It is the Holy Spirit that wooed and drew us to Christ Jesus in the first place.

After Salvation, it is the Holy Spirit that accomplishes that progressive sanctification in the inner man of our soul cleaning up those old conditions of unrighteousness unto recovered conditions conducive to Kingdom purposes.

This is exactly what every true believer should be crying out for. Sanctification by Holiness.

Romans 5:1 and 2 are among my favorite verses. "Therefore being Justified by faith, we have peace with GOD through our LORD Jesus Christ: By Whom also we have access by faith into this Grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the Glory of GOD."

Sanctification is how we clean out those old, damaged conditions of destruction and manifest the Glory of GOD within our soul.

GOD has given us many different ways to interact with HIM and HIS Holiness. Declaring the scriptures out loud is just one of them. Can you think of any others? We all must learn how we are to walk according to the Spirit of Life.

We are told this in Romans 8:1-4, "There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. For the Law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, GOD sending HIS own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit."

Condemnation means evidence that can be used to convict someone of wrongdoing unto punishment, which in the case of sin means not just that death penalty, but continued spiritual punishment in Hell. GOD took that Sin Nature that demands death unto Hell and placed all of our condemnation upon Jesus while He was on that cruel cross, and Jesus surrendered Himself and paid not just that death penalty, but also, that everlasting suffering of spiritual death in Hell for our committed sins. But, wait, you ask, did Jesus suffer for our committed sins of iniquity and our transgressions in that torment of Hell? My answer is that it would have already become a moot issue BEFORE Jesus was crucified. Since Jesus did not actually suffer that that corruption in the torment of the wicked dead in Gehenna or Hell, how did He accomplish this work? Of course, this is not actively taught in most Christian churches, but Jesus suffered the torment of the wicked (penalty for our committed iniquities and transgressions) in that scourging corruption of His body even before He made that horrible "via dolorosa" to His crucifixion on Golgotha.

In essence Jesus suffered two sentences of death. What many do not realize is that Jesus suffered not just that death of the crucifixion for our Sin Nature, but He was punished way past death for our committed sins in His scourging. We must realize that man cannot Kill GOD. But, GOD came in the bodily form of Christ Jesus for the purpose of suffering and dying in our place. In that spiritual reality, Jesus suffered two death sentences for us so that we might have salvation from Hell and the healing of the wounds incurred in our soul by our committed iniquities and our transgressions. We would do very well to bear in our mind that all sin is first and foremost a sin against GOD's Holiness. And then, our iniquities are a wounding we self-inflict in the mindscape of our own soul. We transgress when we sin against others. The insidiousness of transgressions is that we self-inflict a wound in our own soul as commiserate as the wound our trespass inflicts in the soul of those we trespass against. Traumas are major and sometimes do the most damage to all parties involved. Inherent within all sin are the wages of death. Our joy of life dies off a little more when we sin. Christ Jesus was scourged was past what wound have slew a mortal man. In fact, Jesus was scourged more than any human being had ever been scourged. The way they depict this in book and videos is nowhere as gruesome as the reality of Jesus' scourging.

Isaiah 52:14 tells us, "As many were astonied, (astonished) at Thee; His visage was so marred more than any man, and His form more than the sons of men:"

Isaiah 53:1-7 we read, "Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the Arm of the LORD revealed?

For He grew up before HIM as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: He hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see Him, there is no beauty that we should desire Him. He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from Him; He was despised, and we esteemed Him not. Surely He has borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem Him stricken, smitten of GOD, and afflicted. But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon Him; and with His stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD hath laid on Him the iniquity of us all."

That thief, (our spiritual enemies and their human minions) are going to do everything to keep you from becoming persuaded in the salvation security of your citizenship in that Eternal realm so that you do not grow from Faith unto FAITH and begin to rejoice in expectation of the Glory of GOD being manifested in you. We have far more to rejoice in, as opposed to what we think that we have to be sad about.

So, anyone who has accepted and embraced Christ Jesus is, has, and will always be walking after the Spirit, no matter their carnal condition. Every Christian is somewhere between their carnality and their possible spiritual potential. If you want to be more spiritual than carnal, it would be a good thing to learn how to sow to the Spirit more than you sow to the flesh. But, even the worst carnal Christian is still a Born again Christian who has that indwelling Holy Spirit abiding within. Walking in the Spirit is not about being a good person. Only GOD has the ability to genuinely quicken and transform our inner man by HIS Holiness unto Fruitful conditions. Only GOD is good.

Jesus gives freedom and liberties

Legalism demands Judgement.

Legalism demands that we meet requirements in order to merit Heaven.

Jesus has already met every requirement GOD demanded of us.

Once whosoever will has become Born again, legalism is served and redemption is complete, Eternally.

A perfectly done deal.

We might as well get on with the business of our new Kingdom citizenship. Every scripture that legalists use to try and espouse that bondage to fear and performance must be taken out of its physical context in order to condemn those who are weak in Faith. Declaring the scriptures out loud is one of the surest ways to grow in Faith.

This scripture the message of the Gospel bringing forth faith for salvation but it also encompasses growing in Faith unto FAITH in sanctification.

Romans 10:17, "So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of GOD."

In the greatest legal transaction of all time, Jesus Christ redeemed fallen man, back to right relationship with GOD in His scourging and crucifixion deaths, completely satisfying GOD on our behalf. That is why we are free indeed from all condemnation. That greatest legal transaction was accomplished by Jesus when He legally purchased us back from Satan to GOD. The power that the devil once had over us has been destroyed. We are now the purchased possession of GOD.

In this next scripture the word peculiar means the same as purchased.

1st Peter 2:9 and 10, "But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an Holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of HIM Who hath called you out of darkness into HIS marvelous Light: Which in time past were not a people, but are now the People of GOD: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy."

1st Corinthians 3:16 says, "Know ye not that ye are the temple of GOD, and that the Spirit of GOD dwelleth in you?"

Since GOD rent that veil of the Holy of Holies, WE now have a distinction of being the building of GOD and GOD has given to each of us HIS Holy Spirit to guide in our Kingdom inheritances which are unlimited in scope. No man will ever be able to plumb the depths of the Kingdom of GOD, but we can try.

Ephesians 1:2-14, "Grace be to you, and peace, from GOD our Father, and from the LORD Jesus Christ. Blessed be the GOD and Father of our LORD Jesus Christ, WHO hath blessed us with ALL Spiritual blessings in Heavenly places in Christ: According as HE hath chosen us in HIM before the foundation of the world, that we should be Holy and without blame before HIM in love: Having predestinated us unto adoption of Children by Jesus Christ to HIMSELF, according to the good pleasure of HIS will, To the praise of the Glory of HIS Grace, wherein HE hath made us accepted in the Beloved.

In Whom we have redemption through His Blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of HIS Grace; Wherein HE hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence; Having made known unto us the mystery of HIS Will, according to HIS Good pleasure which HE hath purposed in HIMSELF; That in the dispensation of the fullness of times HE might gather together in ONE all things in Christ, both which are in Heaven, and which are on earth; even in HIM: In WHOM also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of HIM Who worketh all things after the councel of HIS Own Will: That we should be to the praise of HIS Glory, who first trusted in Christ.

In Whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the Word of Truth, the gospel of your Salvation: in Whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise, Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of HIS Glory."

While we may think that Adam lost something important we he ate of that forbidden fruit, in Christ Jesus we have gained something far superior when Christ tasted death on behalf of the world.

We have been set free indeed to now walk in newness of Life, build a spiritual house of Faith and gain treasures that will abide and benefit us for all of Eternity future.

Now, that is something to rejoice in, which is exactly why GOD did all of this for us. GOD did all of this so that we could learn how to rejoice in what we do have, instead of dwelling on the meager and quite valueless physical things that we think we are lacking. GOD wants us to learn that Kingdom secret of rejoicing, in hope of the Glory of GOD being manifested in us.

1st Corinthians 3:8-15, "Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor, For we are laborers together with GOD: ye are GOD's husbandry, ye are GOD's Building.

According to the Grace of GOD which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. For other foundation can no man lay than is laid, which is Christ Jesus.

Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble; Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is.

If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward.

If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire."

Once legalism has been served and sentence carried out, the victim is free to live out the remainder of their existence in peace, with no fear of backlash or the double jeopardy of future condemnation.

Religious legalism demands more than backlash, it demands trial after trial and punishment upon punishment until the offender some-how loses their life as payment for their crimes and then has to go to Hell to boot.

That is the legalistic demands of paganism that has infiltrated Christianity, which is a spiritual confusion; and such who believe that they can somehow lose their salvation because of committed sin are living in spiritual deception. They cannot even begin to build their Spiritual house upon that firm foundation of Christ Jesus.

It always amazes me how ardently they preach that deception.

It is a spiritual evolution in Faith for a Born again Christian to become persuaded by the Holy Spirit in the Eternal security of their Salvation and find their rest in the finished work of Christ Jesus.

I know this to be a fact because I was taught that a Born again Christian could somehow lose their Salvation because of sin as I was growing up in several legalistic denominations.

And, while I was a fully vested citizen of the Kingdom of GOD, and free indeed all along as far as my Heavenly Father was concerned; I lived under that torment of bondage to performance for my own righteousness. I was so bound up in the fear that I might have failed and had not asked for forgiveness for some sin in my past, or even worse, that somehow I had committed that unpardonable sin without knowing it, that I lived in spiritual oppression, and suffered horrible depression even unto despairing of life. I suffered great loss and lost everything of value to me at that time, but now I understand that GOD had an Eternal purpose for me to learn how to persevere with HIS help, and learn intimately all of the intricacies of an overcomer who inherits the Kingdom of GOD within and helps others find their way to their freedom.

Now, I live in freedom and enjoy my liberties.

Our debt has been fully paid and we are free indeed to now stand securely in Grace with GOD and learn how to walk in Newness of Life for the rest of our physical existence here unto we come into our heritage of Eternal Life in Heaven with our GOD.

Jesus had no Sin Nature and never sinned or committed any crimes. Yet, He was scourged in His body way past what would have killed a mortal man, for our committed sins of trespass, iniquity, and trauma. And, then, Jesus was punished as a criminal in His Crucifixion for our Sin Nature. When Jesus fulfilled the will of GOD and died on that Cross of Calvary, The Old Testament was not only satisfied and closed, but Jesus also became the mediator of a far superior New Testament covenant with GOD by His innocent Blood. This is why we are set free from that old law of sin and death, to now pursue that Newness of Life in the Spirit. Isaiah 52:14, tells us, "As many were astonished at Thee; His visage was so marred more than any man, and His form more than the sons of man:"

Isaiah 53:3-6 tells us, "He is despised and rejected of men; a Man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from Him; He was despised, and we esteemed Him not.

Surely He hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem Him stricken, smitten of GOD, and afflicted. But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon Him; and with His stripes we are healed.

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD hath laid on Him the iniquity of us all."

Now, instead of being under the demands of the letter of the Law, we are set free in Christ to rest in His finished work and begin learning how to Abide in the Vine, in order to inherit the extended benefits of this new covenant with all of its newness of life in the Spirit.

Romans 3:19-28, "Now we know that what things soever the Law saith, it saith to them who are under the Law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before GOD. Therefore by the deeds of the Law shall no flesh be justified in HIS sight: for by the Law is the knowledge of sin. But now the Righteousness of GOD without the Law is manifested, being witnessed by the Law and the prophets; Even the Righteousness of GOD which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference: For all have sinned, and come short of the Glory of GOD; Being justified freely by HIS Grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus: Whom GOD hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in His Blood, to declare His Righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of GOD; To declare, I say, at this time HIS Righteousness: that HE might be JUST, and The JUSTIFIER of him which believeth in Jesus.

Where is boasting? IT is excluded. By what Law? Of works? Nay: but by the Law of faith. Therefore we conclude that a man is Justified by faith without the deeds of the Law."

When, "whosoever will" accepts that fact, and invites Jesus to be their savior, Christ comes into their deadness and births a brand new Spirit of Life, of Himself within their emptiness, whereby they become, "The Born Again," and complete in Him.

In this transaction, once anyone becomes one of the Born again in Christ, they are now a fully vested citizen of that spiritual Kingdom of GOD. They not only possess that Eternal Life in heaven, but The Father has given them that indwelling Holy Spirit to counsel, and teach them how to begin to inherit the many other benefits of a citizen in the Kingdom of Heaven within our being, right here on earth. Because Jesus has already paid for every sin that I will ever commit in the whole of my lifetime, I have identified in His Payment, judicially judged by GOD, redeemed and translated into my position of the Sanctified.

While I still have all of my old damage in my soul, I now have the privilege of learning how to walk according to the counsel of the indwelling Holy Spirit and experience the regeneration of that old unrighteousness in me unto sanctified conditions conducive to Fruitfulness.

That indwelling Holy Spirit guides us in that sanctification process, whereby we become fruitful branches that produce the Fruit of the Spirit in our inner man. But, before this can truly happen in fullness every believer must be persuaded in Faith that their Salvation from Hell is a done deal in the finished work of Christ and that it is now impossible for them to somehow lose their citizenship in Heaven for any reason or excuse. We are truly free, indeed.

1st Corinthians 2:9-12, "But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which GOD hath prepared for them that love HIM. But GOD hath revealed them unto us by HIS Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of GOD. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of GOD knoweth no man, but the Spirit of GOD.

Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of GOD; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of GOD."

Are you a Born again Christian?

Have you ever in your past made a profession of faith in the name of Jesus as savior?

Do you have thoughts of doubt about your salvation?

I have some very good news for you.

Please keep reading.

It is the desire of GOD that every one of HIS Children become confident in their citizenship in the Kingdom of GOD and their salvation with its Eternal Life with HIM in Heaven. Your Father GOD wants you know and enjoy your relationship with HIM through HIS Word by HIS Holy Spirit in sanctification. Your Father GOD wants you to know that you are HIS Child and embracw HIS love for you. But, you cannot even accept HIS love for you until you are persuaded in your Eternal security. Many things in the Kingdom hinge upon this fact.

Kingdom sanctification is not about how good a person you can try to become.

Kingdom sanctification is about the changes that GOD, HIMSELF can make within your inner man as you interact with HIM and HIS Holiness. GOD, your heavenly Father wants you to enjoy the love HE has for you.

It is not important at first, how much you know about GOD right at that moment. What is more important to each of us is that GOD KNOWS US. GOD has given you HIS indwelling Holy Spirit to guide you in Faith, enlightenment, and Kingdom understanding of truth, and how to take advantage of all of the things of the Kingdom that HE has made available HIS Children.

GOD wants you to become a householder by building a Spiritual house of Doctrine in which to store your Kingdom treasures you gain in your life here.

But, right now the most crucial matter is that GOD wants you to get your mind persuaded in the security of your citizenship with its Eternal Life with HIM in Heaven.

What is of supreme importance is that GOD KNOWS YOU, and is completely satisfied with you for one reason and one reason only. And that is because you have accepted HIS perfect provision for your lost condition. You accepted and invited Jesus into your heart as your Savior.

Once you become persuaded that it is now impossible for you to somehow lose your salvation because of sin or ill performance, you will become more single-minded than your old double-mindedness and its confusion. A double-minded person is unstable in all their ways including their Faith. Your spiritual enemy wants to keep you in confusion on that crucial subject.

James 1:5-8, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of GOD, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in Faith, nothing wavering, For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the LORD. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways."

GOD wants you to trust and be confident in HIM as your all-in-all. GOD wants you to keep HIM at the center of your life, as your only source of emotional and spiritual needs. As you walk in sanctification with the Holy Spirit, you will experience your Faith growing unto FAITH. As you grow in sanctification unto spiritual maturity you will become a, "Vessel of Honor" that GOD can use for HIS purposes.

What is true ministry?

Genuine Kingdom of GOD ministry is GOD supplying exactly what is needed in the pressure of need, both to you, and through you to others.

Philippians 1:6, "Being confident of this very thing, that HE which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:"

Philippians 4:19, "But my GOD shall supply all your needs according to HIS riches in Glory by Christ Jesus."

GOD wants you to become confident in HIM and HIS promises to you.

Many Christians are trying to make themselves into vessels of honor by their own self-discipline.

2nd Corinthians 4:6 and 7, "For GOD, who commanded the Light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the Glory of GOD in the face of Jesus Christ.

But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of GOD, and not of us."

Once you do become confident in GOD and HIS promises to you, it will open the door and you will be able to go in and out and find your pasture with GOD and enjoy the Kingdom of GOD on a level that you could not before you became persuaded in the Eternal security of your Salvation that Christ Jesus gained for us.

Jesus tells us in John 10:9 and 10, "I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. The thief cometh not, but to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly."

The thief is speaking of our spiritual enemies, and their human minions. We have this promise from GOD: and that enemy has no power and cannot take our life unless GOD approves of such.

Colossians 3:3 and 4, "For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in GOD. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with Him in Glory."

So since this enemy cannot kill you because your life is hid with Christ in GOD, and he cannot snatch you out of GOD's hand, what has the thief come to steal, kill, and destroy?

Your FAITH.

Your pasture.

Your abundant Life

Your Spiritual prosperity.

Your Kingdom potential.

Your Kingdom treasures.

GOD wants you to trust in HIS covenant promises to you that nothing can ever again separate you from HIM and HIS love for you.

Romans 8:31-39, "What shall we then say to these things? If GOD be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not HIS own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall HE not with Him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay any thing to the charge of GOD's elect? It is GOD that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, Who is even at the right hand of GOD, Who also maketh intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? As it is written, For THY sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through HIM that loved us. For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things to come, Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of GOD, which is in Christ Jesus our LORD."

GOD wants you to wear your Helmet of Salvation, and begin to inherit the Kingdom of heaven within and become a Fruitful branch as you learn how to, "Abide in the Vine."

In Kingdom reality, it is the Holy Spirit who puts that Helmet of Salvation on me when HE brings me to that persuasion in my Faith where I now know that my Eternal security in the Kingdom of GOD is a done deal in the finished work of Christ alone; and that it is now impossible for me to somehow lose that salvation for any reason.

When I come to that place in my relationship with GOD, I gain the power of being able to cast down those thoughts that rise up in my mind about my position in Grace.

2nd Corinthians 10:3-5, "For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh: (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through GOD to the pulling down of strong holds;) Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of GOD, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ;"

Now those seeded thoughts about doubting my salvation lose the power they once had.

Have you ever doubted your salvation?

What every Child of GOD needs to understand is that it is actually a supernatural occurrence for a Born again Christian to have that thought pop up in their mind. What so many Children do not understand is the fact that ONLY those who do possess salvation because they are Born again can experience that thought. Only those who ARE saved can doubt their salvation.

Did you want to doubt your salvation?

No, of course not, what Child of GOD wants to doubt their salvation.

Do you really think that that thought originated in your mind?

No, it did not.

It was seeded there by our spiritual enemies in that effort to keep us in confusion, and in so doing, steal from us our potential of Spiritual prosperity. That enemy, nor our sin, has any power to change the Fact that I am now a Born again Child of GOD, and a fully vested citizen of the Kingdom of heaven.

If the enemy can keep us listening to that thought of doubting our salvation, then we will keep hanging around the door and not go in and out in confidence and find our pasture, which is our potential of Spiritual prosperity in the Kingdom of GOD.

Satan wants to keep every believer in confusion and therefore, less of a threat, or no threat at all, to his hold of confusion; not just over our mind but over the minds of others. That enemy cannot take anything from you but if he can keep you in confusion, he is basically stealing from you your Kingdom potential prosperity while you are here on earth.

If that enemy can keep you off balance, unsure of who, and what you really are, he will keep you from asserting your rights and contending in confidence for your very real inheritance.

Once any Born again believer becomes persuaded in the verity of their position in Grace with GOD, the enemy begins to consider them as a potential threat to his scheme of confusion.

It is the enemy's goal to keep every Child of GOD in confusion concerning the reality of their position as a Saint, and their rights in the Kingdom of GOD.

Kingdom of GOD, or Kingdom of heaven?

You can use which ever you choose because they both mean the same. Matthew uses both, while Mark, Luke, and John use Kingdom of GOD.

Do you think that Satan would dare to seed that thought of doubt into the mind of someone who was not saved?

He is not an evangelist of the Gospel of Christ Jesus and does not desire to help cause anyone to consider anything about Jesus or salvation. His tools are tools of destruction like error, with its confusion, the woundedness in our soul with its guilt and its shame and fear, and unforgiveness, with its bitterness and hardness of heart.

He is working to keep Christians in Spiritual confusion.

He is the father of lies.

I want every Born again Christian to understand who and what they really are in Christ; so that they can begin to take full advantage of all that belongs to them right now, while they are here in this earth.

Every single Born again Christian is wearing a significant Spiritual garment that identifies them to all who are in that unseen spiritual dimension. Only those who are The Born again have been given this garment of salvation. It is a gift from GOD the Father, to all of those who are going to be at the Marriage supper of the Lamb and His Bride.

If you are The Born Again, then you are The Bride of Christ, and right now, you are wearing that Robe of Righteousness given to you by your Father GOD. Actually that Robe of Righteousness, being a Spiritual garment of Salvation was put upon you the instant you invited Jesus into your heart as Savior. Whether that was 4 or 40 years ago you have been wearing that garment of Salvation all along.

If you have ever doubted your salvation, then I want you to understand that that doubt is actually your own personal witness from the enemy that indeed, even they see this garment, and know that you are one of the Born again and thus, saved from Hell.

The Book of Isaiah exhorts us to greatly rejoice in the Lord for giving us our salvation and that significant garment of our new position in the Kingdom of GOD.

Isaiah 61:10, "I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my GOD; for HE hath clothed me with the garments of Salvation, HE hath covered me with the Robe of Righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels."

Every believer needs to become persuaded that as a Born again Christian, their salvation is held secure in the authority of the Hand of Jesus and the power of GOD the Father, in heaven, outside of our ability to touch by our ill performance.

In other words, my iniquity has no power whatsoever to even touch my Salvation because that salvation has gone on ahead of me and is waiting for me to come into it, in heaven.

My Salvation is now become my heritage.

And while it is important that we grow in FAITH and thereby, grow in intimacy with GOD, what is of greatest importance is the fact that GOD knows each of HIS Children individually and corporately as HIS people, Israel.

In The Book of John 10:27-30 we are told by Jesus, Himself, that, "My sheep hear my voice, and I KNOW THEM, and they follow me: And I give unto them Eternal Life and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of My Hand. My Father, which gave them Me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of My Father's Hand. I and My Father are one."

My Salvation has now become my heritage, and I now have every right to begin inheriting the rights of my citizenship within my being and in my life, right now.

Whereas, before I believed in Jesus I had no peace, being, lost to GOD, I was a citizen of this fallen world and having no rights of covenant, I was doomed to spend eternity in Hell for my Sin Nature.

In Ephesians 2:12, Paul writes, "That at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without GOD in the world:"

But now, whereas before, only the Jews could enter into the temple and the Gentiles were separated and segregated to the outside of that outer court by a wall, now has GOD broken down all separating barriers and walls, and made all one through Christ Jesus and His innocent blood.

Ephesians 2:13-22, "But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were afar of are made nigh by the blood of Christ. For He is our peace, who hath made bot one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us; Having abolished in His flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances; for to make in Himself of twain one new man, so making peace; And that He might reconcile both unto GOD in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby: And came and preached peace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh. For through Him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the SAINTS, and of the household of GOD; And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone; In whom all the building fitly framed together growth unto an holy temple in the LORD: In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of GOD through the Spirit."

In fact, even now, I have been given a sure guarantee from GOD the Father that I am the redeemed, purchased by the innocent blood of Christ and now in a perfectly secure covenant with GOD. That down payment guaranteeing my Eternal Life with GOD in HIS Kingdom and earnest of my heritage is the indwelling Holy Spirit. This is that same Spirit that raised Christ Jesus to a new and Glorified Body in victory over death.

And, HE will do the sames with us one day. The awesome thing is that GOD has already accredited to us this glorification unto being spiritually Sanctified unto SAINTS.

It is that innocent blood of Christ Jesus that purchased my pardon from that condemnation of Hell for my Sin Nature.

I have been Judicially, Justified in Christ Jesus, unto being even now, a Saint; and GOD has given me the earnest of The Holy Spirit dwelling in me bodily, to counsel and teach me the ways of the Kingdom.

Romans 8:11 tells us, "But, if the Spirit of HIM that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, HE that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by HIS Spirit that dwelleth in you."

As a Child of GOD I have two types of sanctification. The first being, the moment I became GOD's adopted Child, in the Kingdom I was moved out of my fallen citizenship of this world and translated into my Kingdom citizenship of Sanctified unto GOD.

Now, as a Born again Christian I am positionally, Justified unto being a SAINT of GOD.

This is why I now wear the garments of GOD's gift of Salvation, and the Robe of Christ's Righteousness. Now I am the bride of Christ and wear those betrothal garments signifying my place at that wedding supper celebration.

Ephesians 2:19 tells us, "Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow-citizens with the Saints, and of the household of GOD."

This indwelling Holy Spirit seals me until that day when HE will culminate my redemption, whereby HE will purge me of anything of corruption that I did not finish dealing with through that sanctification process while I was here in Earth. Ephesians 4:30 instructs us, "And grieve not the Holy Spirit of GOD, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption."

1st Corinthians 15:53 and 54 tells us, "For this corruption must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruption shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in Victory."

At that moment, I will be made perfect to enter that dimension of the celestial of heaven in Victory over Death, and triumph over that Sin Nature.

GOD, the Father knows this to be a forgone conclusion, and in fact, has already accredited me with this perfection, when I first became one of The Born again, wherein HE translated me out of that old, cursed blood-line of Adam, and into "The Blessed and Highly Favored" blood-line of HIS Sanctified Children.

Paul explains this truth about our salvation through Christ Jesus and our sealed redemption in his letter to the Ephesians where he tells them that all of this became ours in the name of Jesus.

Ephesians 1:13 and 14 that says, "In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation: in whom also after ye believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of His Glory."

So we see the full work of Salvation from beginning to end. In reality a Child of GOD has many more benefits than just this Eternal Salvation from Hell.

Jesus is now become my complete deliverance and freedom from that spiritual death penalty in Hell for my Sin Nature.

As a fully vested citizen of heaven through the perfect work of Christ Jesus, I can now learn "THE ALL NEW WAYS OF LIFE IN THE SPIRIT" and begin inheriting the Kingdom of GOD within my being while I am yet here in this physical atmosphere of Earth.

This is where that second type of sanctification comes into play. Once I am become the Born again and saved from that dead penalty of Hell; I am not saved to live unto myself. Even after I do enter into that Blood Bought Covenant with GOD and become a Saint through that perfect propitiation of Christ Jesus; I still have all of those wounds of destruction in my soul intact. GOD has given me HIS indwelling Holy Spirit to guide me in that recovery from those wounds of unrighteousness through a process of sanctification by HIS Holiness. It is these wounds of iniquity, trauma, and trespass that incline me to commit acts of destruction.

Forgiveness is the KEY that unlocks my prison and sets me free from my destruction. It is the unseen conditions of unrighteousness in the inner man of my soul that is going to keep me sick. This what it means to be an ill or corrupt tree.

Every Christian must learn, The All New Ways of Life in The Spirit. We must learn how to practice proper soul hygiene. If not, we can continue to expect what we see happening within us and worse. We will stay an ill tree that is becoming more corrupt.

Luke 6:43-45, "For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns do men not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of an evil heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh."

Hebrews 12:1-13 says, "Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is before us,

Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our Faith; Who for the joy that was set before Him endured the Cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of GOD.

For consider Him that endured such contradiction of sinners against Himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds.

Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.

And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto Children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the LORD, nor faint when thou art rebuked of HIM:

For whom the LORD loveth HE chasteneth, and sourgeth every son whom HE receiveth.

If ye endure chastening, GOD dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?

But, if ye be without chasetisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.

Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of Spirits, and live?

For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but HE for our profit, that we might be partakers of HIS Holiness.

Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievious: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable Fruit of righteousness unto them which are execised thereby.

Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees;

And make straight paths for your feet, (Matthew 7:13 and 14) lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed."

This healing unto following that straight path is that sanctification process by Holiness; and it is only wide enough for one person to traverse with the help of the Holy Spirit. Each of us must walk a singular, individual path, counseled and guided by the Holy Spirit.

But, we must have a Light.

Our Light to and on this straight and narrow path is the WORD of GOD!

Psalm 119:96-107, "O how love I Thy law! It is my meditation all the day. Thou through Thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me. I have more understanding than all my teachers: for Thy testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients, because I keep Thy precepts. I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep Thy Word. I have not departed from Thy judgments: for Thou hast taught me. How sweet are Thy WORDS unto my taste! Yea, sweeter that honey to my mouth! Through Thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way. Thy WORD is a lamp unto my feet, and a LIGHT unto my path. I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep Thy righteous judgments. I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according to Thy WORD."

Every Christian can learn and benefit from interaction with GOD's Holiness. The surest way to do this is hrough HIS WORD and prayer.

If you want to experience the healing of your spiritual lameness, change from an ill corrupt tree, and truly begin to walk that straight and narrow path of sanctification, then it is imperative that you understand the importance of declaring the scriptures of the WORD of GOD out loud. Declaring the scriptures out loud is a statute of the Kingdom of GOD. All vocal communications with GOD is interaction with HIS Divine Nature.

Psalm 119:108, "Accept, I bessech Thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me Thy judgments."

This is the start of how we fulfill this next verse.

Hebrews 12:14, "Follow peace with all men, and HOLINESS, without which no man shall see the LORD:"

Until I diligently practice this Kingdom precept of interacting with GOD's Divine Nature all I am going to keep doing is passing on expressions of the lame condition that the inner man of my soul is in.

Hebrews 12:15, "Looking diligently lest any man fail of the Grace of GOD; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled;"

Roots of bitterness are the results of harboring unforgivenness, and can continue to compound into becoming hardness of heart.

If I deal with unforgiveness before it becomes compounded into a root of bitterness, the enemy cannot turn it into a stronghold. The real problem with a stronghold is that the enemy does not guard it frombeing eradicated. Point in fact, he gets us to guard it from invasion with our own sentimentality. It is the same situation with a lie or an error. If, through that sanctification process my inner man is healed and recovered, then I have less unrighteousness to be passed on to others, and the strength that is powering, compelling and inclining my desire to commit iniquity is cleaned up. I slowly lose or get rid of what is at the root of my desires to commit sin. The more I clear out these situations in my inner man, the more I can be used by GOD to meet the ministerial needs of divine appointments.

As I walk in that sanctification process that is quickened by GOD's Holiness, I experience sanctification inside, bringing my inner man into greater harmony with my position of the SANCTIFIED in GOD. Through this sanctification process the conditions of woundedness that cause me to act out my carnality are quickened by the Holiness of GOD unto healed conditions that are now conducive to Fruitfulness. This is how that new, abundant Life, that resurrection Life happens within me. I am resurrected unto newness of Everlasting Life.

One of the greatest points of confusion that I have encountered within the teachings of Christianity is the lack of understanding of the Kingdom differences between Eternal and Everlasting Life. Yes, I am well aware that the finite mind thinks that they are both addressing the same thing. But, once this misunderstanding is cleared up I am amazed at how fast a Christian begins to experience greater harmony in their understanding of their relationship with GOD and HIS Word; and their responsibilities in the Kingdom of GOD. And I know that I am restating what I have written earlier and will repeat later, but Kingdom Truth can never be repeated often enough. Basically, we receive our gift of salvation from Hell and that Eternal Life with GOD in Heaven by the death of Christ on that Cross of Calvary. And we receive our Everlasting Life and that gift of the Holy Ghost in the resurrection of Christ from the dead unto Newness of Life.

Through my interaction with the Holiness of GOD my self-discipline is empowered to operate on a level I could not have experienced before.

In John 6:63 Jesus said, "It is the Spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the WORDS that I speak unto you, they are SPIRIT and they are LIFE.

What kind of life?

New Life influence by GOD's Divine Nature.

Resurrected Life.

Abundant Life.

Everlasting Life.

Jesus said in John 3:16, "For GOD so loved the world that HE gave HIS only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have Everlasting Life."

Jesus, when He was questioned about living water by the woman at the well said in John 4:10-14, "If thou knewest the gift of GOD, and Who it is that saith to thee, Give Me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of Him, and He would have given thee living water."

The woman saith unto Him, "Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us this well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?"

In John 4:13 and 14, Jesus answered and said unto her, "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into Everlasting Life."

So, why do we need a Savior?

To give us this well of living waters, that we will never thirst again. This is our Eternal Life in Heaven with our LORD.

Jesus said in John 3:14 and 15, "And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: That whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have Eternal Life,"

Why did GOD give us HIS WORD and HIS indwelling Holy Spirit?

To counsel us unto that straight and narrow way of that higher FAITH that was once delivered to the Saints, so that we too, could experience healing of our destruction and that living waters springing up out of the well of our Salvation up into that higher Everlasting Life in our being that is influenced by the Holiness of GOD's Divine Nature.

And to set this issue straight; every Christian should follow Jesus in water baptism, once they are in Grace with GOD, as an act of Faith.

Everybody who is born by water birth from their mother's womb into this physical existence is born into the blood lineage of Adam. As such, we inherit the familial Sin Nature with its curse of separation from intimacy with GOD and its penalty of Spiritual death in Hell.

As such, we are spiritually dead in that empty spiritual vacuum within our being. We are under the wrath of GOD for that Sin Nature we inherit from father Adam, which demands punishment for that Sin Nature in Hell.

You cannot earn or keep Salvation by your own works of obedience, for it is a free gift. GOD keeps it for us by HIS authority and power.

And while it may be free to us, its cost was far and away greater than I would ever be capable of paying. GOD knew this and that is why HE sent Jesus to do all of the work required, in a perfect and complete way. And while it is free to all believe in the name of Jesus, and accept that free gift, it cost GOD the life of HIS only begotten Son.

But, you must ask in faith.

For anyone to recognize that they are lost and that they have a need of this Salvation indicates that they have been chosen by GOD. For GOD has already given them that measure of faith that is required to believe in and invest in that name of Jesus as the only sacrifice that GOD would accept as payment in full for our lost condition. And the Holy Spirit was sent to draw you to invest that faith in the name of Jesus, meaning all that Christ is. Once they have invested that initial measure of delivered faith in the name of Jesus, then Jesus does all the work of salvation within them, giving them that gift of salvation from Hell and Eternal Life in Heaven with GOD. This is exactly what it means to be a fully vested citizen of the Kingdom of GOD. As a fully vested citizen of the Kingdom of Heaven, GOD gives us that indwelling Holy Spirit and that wedding gift of that Robe of Righteousness, which is our wedding garment to the marriage supper of the Lamb and His Bride.

To understand why we have a need for Salvation we must go back to the beginning of creation. To that original death that Adam experienced within, when he ate of that forbidden thing in the Garden. The Book of Genesis informs us that after GOD had finished creating the physical cosmos HE created the man. GOD created this man Adam and placed him in the Garden of Eden to take care of it. GOD created man body, soul, and spirit. This created man lived in a state of bliss in his soul and emotions. Adam's soul was in a pristine state with no emotional wounds of iniquity, trespass, or trauma to disturb that balance of harmony. In such a state, the cells of this type of being would replicate on a pristine level and he would live infinitely without decay. Death and destruction did not exist in our cosmos at this point. The pressure of time in this world had not begun.

When GOD created Adam, HE created his body out of the dust of this Earth. Then GOD breathed HIS own eternal breath into that body and it became a living, eternal soul. Everybody born into this world is already eternal because of that breath of GOD. We will live forever. The real question is where will we live forever? Are you going to suffer in everlasting separation from Holiness and love of GOD in that domain of Hell for your Sin Nature; or live and thrive with the redeemed in that celestial dimension of Eternity with GOD? If you choose wisely, you not only get that heritage of your salvation, meaning Eternal Life with GOD, but you also get to begin learning how to inherit the benefits of that Kingdom within your being while you are here in earth.

In the creation of Adam, the Trinity consisting of GOD the Father, GOD the Son, and GOD the Holy Spirit created within Adam an image of themselves. This spirit of innocence was a reflection of the Glory of GOD that radiated out of Adam and became his spiritual clothing. GOD created Adam's whole being to exist in the environment of Earth and exercise dominion over all else in it. Enter Satan, the fallen angel and enemy of all that GOD stands for.

GOD took pleasure in HIS creation of man and wanted the man to enjoy the life HE gave him. GOD wants man to enjoy life and cannot help but love all of mankind with an unbiased love. GOD's character and nature is Holiness. Because of that character of Holiness, GOD cannot help HIMSELF but to love all of mankind equally. Even though GOD loves every one of us, a Born again must learn what it takes to accept, embrace, employ and enjot that love of GOD in order to fully enjoy and appreciate that love. In order to embrace the love of GOD you must first be secure IN the love of GOD. This is a mystery to Christians because they are still yet trying to love GOD without first understanding what it takes to embrace the love HE has for us.

In John 14:21 Jesus is recorded as telling us, "He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth Me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of My Father, and I will love him, and will manifest Myself to him."

This scripture is first dealing with both that sanctification, and the love of Jesus, and the love of GOD.

And, while every inspired word in the Scriptures has value and weight, and should be considered as commandments overall, I think that we could draw this to an even finer point in Mark 12:29-31. We know that GOD loves the whole world, which is illustrated in John 3:16, BUT before salvation, each individual in this world is spiritually dead under curse of their Sin Nature and therefore, blocked off from intimacy with that love of GOD. IF, through exposure to the Word or Gospel, they receive that faith to believe in Jesus and accept Him as Savior, that Sin Nature that was separating them from intimacy with the love of GOD is removed from that equation, whereby now, they are free to learn how to embrace the love of GOD and begin experiencing as much as they choose. But, they must learn that order of operation. We must first be able to accept that the fact that GOD loves us before we can embrace that love. Then we can employ that love, enjoying it as it permeates our being.

In the Book of Mark 12:29-31 we are instructed by Jesus in a Kingdom principle of the operation of love, "And Jesus answered him, "The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our GOD is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy GOD with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these."

In these two verses contain a Kingdom truth that only the Holy Spirit can reveal. How much does GOD love us? With all of HIS heart, soul, mind, and strength. All of the commandments of the Old Testament Law are contained in this commandment of Christ. I find that to be a truth that even the finite mind can see. But, remember how I explained that a Born again Christian must learn the all new ways of life in the Kingdom of GOD as a blood bought Child of GOD in this New Testament. Until a Born again Christian is persuaded and confident in the security of their citizenship in heaven they will be hindered from being able to embrace the love that GOD has for them and be able to fulfill the progression of the commandment of Christ contained in Mark 12:29-31. I must first be secure in the love of my GOD for my value system to start getting its input from the only source that can rewrite and supply the integrity and self-esteem that that relationship of love can fulfill in me intimately as HIS Child. I cannot experience this process until my being is becoming a product of peace in my heart, mind, and soul; being persuaded that I am a fully vested Child of GOD, who stands in Grace with my Father GOD, resting in the finished work of Christ Jesus. As such, now I am a perfect vessel ready to learn how to "Abide in the Vine." When my value system is being quickened and basically, rewritten, (As it should have been from the beginning if I had only been properly discipled by a mature Christian mentor) I become a receiver and yet more, a product of that security of love, that is now standing in the Grace of the love of my Father GOD. This security sets me up to develop a harmonious, working, relationship with GOD.

So, I ask you again, exactly how much does GOD love the Born again believer? GOD loves HIS Children with all of HIS heart, with all of HIS soul, with all of HIS mind, and with all of HIS strength. In other words, GOD loves HIS children with all of HIS being.

As a Born again child of GOD, the only thing that can stop me from enjoying that love is my lack of Faith. Without a relationship of trust, how can I ever, be able to even accept the fact that GOD loves me, and wants me to enjoy that love? A believer must first be able to accept the fact that GOD loves them. I must first be persuaded in the security of my relationship with GOD through that perfect work of Christ Jesus. Then, in that trust, I will feel secure enough to accept and embrace that love. As a result of embracing that love, I can experience it permeate throughout my being and enjoy that love.

We must accept, embrace, employ, and enjoy that love that our Father has for us. When we do this, that love begins to rewrite our value system whereby we can now begin to love ourselves. As a product of the security of the Love of my Father, the self-esteem of my value system is no longer one of basic selfishness but can become one of selflessness: of charity. Accepting, and embracing that love now allows me to employ that love within my working relationship with GOD. I am able to fully embrace the love of GOD, in perfect trust and the secure position of my place in the family of GOD. As a result of me becoming a product of that love, that love is expressed and eventually, I will see myself loving my neighbor.

GOD is a GOD of harmony in relationship, and love towards all of mankind. Expect GOD to use you to express that love to others.

Back in the Garden of Eden, GOD would walk and talk and visit face to face with Adam during the cool of the day. I cannot imagine what that was really like for Adam. But, it is evident that GOD was mentoring Adam. GOD was instructing Adam in dominion. This is illustrated by the fact that GOD brought the animals before Adam for Adam to name.

Our words have far greater weight than we realize.

Satan is the god of division, hate, and murder. Those who do such things are acting out the character of that enemy of GOD. Satan hates GOD and anything GOD loves; and went about to destroy the intimacy the first man, Adam enjoyed with GOD. GOD designed man with a need to be in relationship with HIM and to get everything he needed to satisfy and fulfill him directly from that source. There are certain needs that man has, that are only meant to be satisfied in that personal relationship with GOD. Intimacy with GOD is the only way man can find true fulfillment in this existence. GOD told Adam face to face that he could eat of all of the fruit of the trees in the Garden except the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. At this time man was in perfect peace in relations with GOD. Satan could not confront the man Adam face to face, so he found a back door. In mentorship, when GOD brought the animals before Adam to name, GOD was also showing man his need for a female counterpart or mate. GOD knew that it was not good for man to be alone and so HE created Adam a helpmate. Adam called this woman Eve because she was the mother of all mankind. Satan could not confront Adam to his face because GOD had spoken with Adam personally. Satan had to find a back door. Satan was able to deceive Eve by casting doubt upon the very words of GOD that were related to her through Adam. Somehow, Eve had the idea that they were not supposed to even touch the tree let alone eat from it. So what happens when Eve is persuaded into touching that Tree? Nothing happens. So then, that snake got her to take the next step quite easily and she ate the Fruit from the forbidden Tree. Still, nothing changed.

But when Eve gave to Adam, (and he ate) both of their eyes were opened and that spiritual image of innocence within them died and their spiritual clothing left them both naked and ashamed. And Adam brought the Sin Nature into our existence along with all of its curses of corruption and death, itself, in all of its forms.

Why was it that nothing changed when Eve ate of the forbidden fruit?

Adam was the one that GOD gave the mantle of responsibility to; not Eve. That is why nothing happened even though Eve had eaten of the forbidden fruit.

Adam started the process of those destructive conditions of unrighteousness that would result in emotional distress in their soul and set in motion the ravages of decay in their flesh that would one day result in Physical death. For the first time they experienced the emotional damage of iniquity with its guilt, shame, and fear. They were cursed with slow physical death here and that eventual spiritual punishment for that Sin Nature in Hell. We are not told as to whether or not they ever came into faith, trusting that GOD would one day sending HIS only begotten Son Jesus to deliver them from Spiritual punishment in Hell for their Sin Nature.

I want you to hear what I am saying and become confident in this truth: nobody goes to Hell for committing any kind or number of sin. And nobody goes to Heaven for doing more good deeds than bad. That is the thinking of the finite mind of religion. Christianity is a relationship and that legalism of religion has no place in that personal relationship with GOD.

The only reason anyone goes to Heaven is because they are become, "The Born again, in Christ Jesus. The only reason that anybody has to go to Hell is because they are NOT The Born again through Christ.

Jesus left His place in Heaven and was born into this physical world for the purpose of satisfying that wrath of GOD for the Sin Nature and to destroy its power of death in Hell.

Once more, nobody goes to Hell for committing any particular type or number of sin. The only reason anyone goes to Hell is because they are still under the condemnation of the Sin Nature they inherited from Adam when they were born into this world. But, once those condemned ARE in Hell, then, there are varying degrees of punishment for the type and number of committed sin. Nobody gets to go to Heaven just for being a good person religiously or for doing more good deeds than bad. No matter what kind or number of good deeds we do, even in Jesus name, if I am not Born again, I go to Hell because I am still under that condemnation for my Sin Nature. Only those who invite Jesus into their hearts as Savior and become one of the Spiritually Born again will enter Heaven when they pass over into Eternity. After the resurrection, if you do not become a Spiritual citizen while you are yet here in Earth, it will be far too late to become one after you die. In truth, once anyone becomes Born again, they possess Eternal Life in Heaven. Even though we are living here, we are, even now, a fully vested citizen of that Eternal Kingdom. Once we are established in Heaven, there will be varying degrees of reward for how we obeyed and co-operated with Holiness while we were here in Earth.

Let me repeat this Kingdom of GOD truth so that there is no misunderstanding in the minds of GOD's Children. There is only one way for anyone to go to Heaven and that is by inviting Jesus into your heart as Savior. Up until then, we were under the curse of the condemnation of our inherited Sin Nature with its punishment in Hell. Anyone who is not Born again is all alone, Spiritually empty and dead inside that Spiritual vacuum of their being; and therefore, cursed to answer for the condemnation of their inherited Sin Nature alone. But when anyone realizes their need of a Savior and they invite Jesus to come and live in their heart, Jesus comes in and births a brand new Spirit of Himself, perfectly filling that once, dead Spiritual vacuum; whereby they become Spiritually alive, what Jesus called Born again.

John 3:3, Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, "Except a man be Born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of GOD."

Simply put, he cannot understand, realizing the brevity, nor understand the truth, nor live in that eternal security.

John 3:5, Jesus answered, "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of GOD."

I will deal with these scriptures more later.

We are now, a new creation and have now entered into the Kingdom of heaven. Now, we need to follow this up with our first act of obedience and experience water baptism, declaring outwardly the inward change that has occurred. After we have believed in the name of Jesus, (encompassing all that He is), our water baptism illustrates that we have repented of our sins, and now profess to everyone that we are physically proclaiming that we have identified in the death AND resurrection of Christ. We too, are now dead to our old man and are now resurrected to live in the all new ways of life in the Spirit. The real issue I have with most organized bodies of believers is the failure to properly disciple their new-borns in the all new ways of life in the Spirit. That is why I have written that follow-up to this letter, titled, "The all new ways of life in the Spirit."

When anyone becomes Born again, they are immediately translated out of the cursed blood-line of Adam over into the familial lineage of GOD the Father. Now they are become one of the ADOPTED Children of GOD. Here in the Great State of Texas, we have an adoption law that can never be changed for any reason whatsoever. Once an orphan has been adopted into a family, that child gains every right of heritage and can now begin to enjoy the benefits of that new name. But, unlike the natural children, this child can never be disinherited for any cause, excuse, or reason; no matter how bad they are afterwards.

GOD establishes every one of HIS adopted Children by a far superior law unto Sainthood and its inheritance of Everlasting Life here and its heritage of Eternal Life there in Heaven.

No amount or type of sin is stronger than the GRACE wherein we stand, purchased for us by the innocent blood of Christ Jesus.

But, once we are established in our citizenship here in Earth, our sin constantly wars against our privilege of inheriting that higher everlasting life of the Kingdom of GOD within while we are yet, here in Earth; but it is powerless to affect our heritage of our eternal citizenship there, in Heaven. What we gain by inheriting Everlasting Life within our being while we are here in Earth goes on into merging with our heritage of Eternal Life there in that celestial dimension of Eternity in Heaven.

Like I have often said to my class; Everybody will be overjoyed to be in Heaven, but Heaven will not be the same for everybody there. We are in training here with the opportunity to excel and gain treasures here to share with others while we are yet here, whereby we will have reward there, and benefit from such and more, for the whole of our future existence in that celestial dimension of Eternity. That is powerful information that needs to be taught to every Born again Christian.

Once anyone becomes Born again, it is thereafter impossible to lose that state of being because of sin. And just so we are perfectly clear on this subject: after the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ Jesus it is now impossible to commit the unpardonable sin. The majority of Christianity has no real understanding of exactly what the unpardonable sin once was, let alone why it is impossible to commit today, over 2,000 years after the death and resurrection of Jesus.

Once again, there is only one reason why anyone today goes to Hell when they enter Eternity and that reason is because they are NOT Born again. It is impossible for a Born again Christian to lose their Salvation for any reason whatsoever. Anyone who thinks otherwise is living in spiritual confusion, which is exactly what Satan wants. Quite simply, they cannot benefit from Abiding in the Vine because they have yet to enter into that place of rest, in peace with GOD. They are still double-minded.

Now, let us explore what Jesus accomplished for us in His birth, life, crucifixion, and resurrection.

There is a rest that belongs to every Born again Child of GOD. This rest is where abiding in the Vine truly shows forth the reality of the indwelling Holy Spirit. When it comes to Spiritual Prosperity, you cannot accomplish such without the Holy Spirit. Under the Old Testament Law, they were compelled by their own flesh to obey the letter of the Law, somehow thinking that this was the way of righteousness. It is the natural inclination of the finite mind to think that the way to please GOD is by trying to be a good person. All religions teach this finite, limiting dogma. Imitating good behavior as directed by what the scriptures have to say on the surface is still works of the flesh and the only outcome can be corruption. Now, I am not saying that we should not try to be good. But, until our discipline is enhanced by Holiness, our self-discipline is basically limited to imitation and emulation of scripture and righteousness.

Every Christian, when they first become the Born again, have entered in through that broad gate onto that wide highway of Faith and Grace that goes directly to Heaven.

In the beginning they are yet vessels of destruction and will continue on down that highway, with the baggage of corruption in their soul, unless some mentor comes along side of them and starts to disciple them in "THE ALL NEW WAYS OF LIFE IN THE SPIRIT."

The problem is that the dogma of religion is an implied understanding still taught by many churches. So many Christians will never be taught "THE ALL NEW WAYS OF LIFE IN THE SPIRIT" because there are no Spiritually, maturing mentors to teach them the difference between those old ways of "Legalism unto Perfectionism," and the new ways of "Abiding in the Vine."

Let me say right here that dogma of religious perfectionism did not work for the Sadducees and the Pharisees, and it holds no promise for greater Spiritual prosperity for Christianity today. Perfectionism is not of the Spirit. Legalism demands my performance in order to deserve heaven by my own merit.

Me, trying to be a good person by my own ability will only get me as far as my own ability to be a good person. This is why the resurrection is so important to a Born again Christian. Without the resurrection there would be no gift of the indwelling Holy Spirit. It is imperative that every Child of GOD understand that intimacy with the Holy Spirit is the only way of Spiritual prosperity.

I am in no way saying that we should not try to be a good person and show forth the way of scripture in our daily life. What I am saying is that there is a higher and surer way in the Spirit that should start taking over and moving us over into more narrow and defined lanes on that broad highway to Heaven. This is what that sanctification unto fruitfulness is about. As we learn how to Abide in the Vine, we move away from those initial lanes of perfectionism with its baggage of destruction. When we become persuaded in our citizenship in Heaven, thereby, putting on that Helmet of Salvation, we begin through sanctification to turn on our turn signal indicating our purpose of moving out of, and away from that previous entry lane, and begin merging into those lanes of Spiritual maturity as we face the lessons of life relying upon our only source of Holiness. By that sanctification process, we clean out those old baggage conditions of destruction in our soul and become more and more a vessel of honor for GOD to use in ministry to others who may still be abiding in confusion. This is how we contend for that FAITH that was at one time delivered to the early Saints.

There seems to be a great deal of confusion concerning the understanding of what GOD is responsible for and what a Born again Christian is responsible for. I have found that once this issue is settled, it frees us up to progress in the Spirit with renewed purpose and dedication. If I know for a fact where I stand with GOD, I find my rest; and then I learn how I can walk in the Spirit and witness the genuine Fruit of the Spirit, I am learning how to abide in the Vine. I start becoming a threat to the kingdom of darkness when I become convinced that it is impossible for me to lose my salvation. Once again we look at what Jesus had to say to us.

John 3:3, Jesus answered and said unto him, (Nicodemus) Verily, verily, I say unto thee, "Except a man be Born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of GOD."

And, then, again in John 3:5, Jesus answered, "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of GOD."

Because of misinterpretation of this last scripture, there are several denominations who actually teach that you are not saved until you are baptized. The very next scripture explains that error in interpretation, where Jesus explains in John 3:6, "That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of Spirit is spirit."

We are born of water from our mother's womb into this world already dead inside our spiritual vacuum and lost to GOD.

I am in not even trying to address that sentimental idea that humans think that a baby is innocent and under some special stipulation of province from GOD until they reach what they think is the age of accountability. But, just the same, every single one of us was born into this world already under the condemnation of that Sin Nature we inherited Adam and are destined to Hell before we have committed any type of sin. Only those who become The Born again have changed that destiny and become citizens of Heaven.

We are Born again of the Spirit when we invite Jesus to come live in our hearts as Savior. Jesus comes into our being and births a spirit of Himself within, perfectly filling that once dead, empty spiritual vacuum. This excludes all fallen angels from becoming Born again after their fall from being part of the Host of GOD.

After I have become Born again and alive in the Spirit, as I walk in sanctification, there will follow expressions by the Holy Spirit of the ministry that GOD chose for me to fulfill in my life.

Anyone can do acts of what they consider ministry. When I do things for others out of genuine compassion I am moving in the right direction. Ministry is what helps, encourages, strengthens, and builds up others without hope of return.

We do it for the Kingdom that we are now a part of. Our Kingdom is not of this world, but it overcomes this world. This is exactly what Jesus came to establish for us. Jesus did not imitate the scriptures. Jesus was the living, breathing, full-filling of the scriptures.

Jesus was the Word made flesh. The Word is exactly what we are to become.

If you want to keep imitating the scriptures, that is your choice.

If you want to become an example of the scriptures you must learn how to find your place of rest in the finished work of Christ Jesus. This is where we start learning how to abide in the Vine. But, it cannot happen without the indwelling Holy Spirit. It is the indwelling Holy Spirit that truly sets us apart from perfectionism.

We must learn the all new ways of the Spirit if we are to be a vital part of the Body of Christ. If you care to know what the new ways of the Kingdom of GOD are, then download a copy of "THE ALL NEW WAYS OF LIFE IN THE SPIRIT."

Christ Jesus was not a mere mortal man. And yet, he was fully man. And He was GOD. If you are now Born again, you are fully man, and you are a fully vested citizen of that dimension of heaven but you have yet to be glorified. The cool thing is that GOD knows you as HIS. Jesus is GOD come into this world in a flesh and blood body for the purpose of redeeming mankind from the curse of our Sin Nature back to GOD. Christ Jesus came to die on the cross and become the propitiation for all mankind. It is of utmost importance that we understand the virgin birth. Without the virgin birth there could be no Savior. This may ruffle some feathers but we must establish truth when it comes to the Virgin Mary and the Virgin birth. There was no human egg, nor human seed involved in the Immaculate Conception of Christ Jesus. The Catholic Church has a different idea about the immaculate conception of Mary that deifies her. Here is why Christianity differs from Catholicism. We do not deify Mary nor require her intercession. Jesus, alone is our High Priest, who intercedes for us before the Father. Mary was a mere human being who was born with a Sin Nature just like me and everyone else born into this world. She needed a savior just the same as everyone else. After His crucifixion Mary had to acknowledge and invite Jesus into her heart as Savior in order to be saved from Hell. GOD Himself was the Father of Christ in Heaven and in Earth. The Christ was placed whole and intact within the clean, virginal womb of Mary before her time of menstruation had even began. If her time had arrived, there could be claims otherwise. This is a vital point because the world and its corruption would say otherwise. If her time had already started it would have signaled and immediately triggered the consummation the final part of her marriage betrothal to Joseph. We know that this had not happened, because when Joseph was told of her pregnancy, he thought to privately put her away and end the betrothal. An angel persuaded him otherwise to do what benefited righteousness. This understanding is crucial because should Mary have started her cycles it would have made her unclean for GOD's purposes. Because of sentimentality, that understanding seems to offend the carnal mind of certain women who are not abiding in the Vine.

Because there was no human egg nor human seed involved it establishes the integrity of the Virgin giving birth to the Son of GOD into this fallen world. Because GOD placed Jesus whole and intact into the Virgin Mary's womb, Jesus was not born into this world under the curse of the Sin Nature of Adam's lineage. Jesus was born into this world as the Messianic Christ of GOD, with unique, one-of-a-kind blood, innocent and untainted by the curse of Adam's fall.

Jesus was innocent and sinless, without a Sin Nature.

Jesus is the only begotten Son of GOD and therefore had no Sin Nature. He was of the innocent blood, untainted by sin. This is how GOD the Father could place our Sin Nature upon the innocent one while He was on the cross, whereby, Jesus could die in our place and deliver us from that death and its condemnation of Hell. But, when Jesus surrendered His Spirit unto death, which gave Him legal entry into that domain of the dead where He shed that Sin Nature. He legally took the keys of Hell and its death away from Satan. Jesus asserted His authority over Abraham's bosom and manifesting Himself as the long awaited Messiah to all of those in Paradise who had died the faith of Abraham. In fact, He swallowed up Paradise within His authority, and in the keeping of HIS promise, GOD the Father resurrected Jesus unto a New and Glorified Body, whereupon Jesus appeared at His tomb before ascending to the Father and presenting His trophies to GOD. Now Paradise and all who were in it are in the presence of GOD in Heaven. Now, after the resurrection, Anyone who becomes Born again goes to Paradise in heaven. In the rapture, Christ will return for His Bride, whereby we will all be changed into a Glorified Body and enter into the Marriage supper.

None of this would have happened were it not for The Virgin Birth.

Matthew 1:18-21 tells us, "Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as His mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shall call his name Jesus: for he shall save his people from their sins."

Jesus is the only begotten Son of GOD. Jesus completely fulfilled every single prophesy concerning the Messiah. Jesus Christ lived a perfectly sinless life and suffered the agonizing torment in the scouring of His body as payment in full for the committed iniquity of mankind. Jesus suffered the full measure of punishment and agony for our committed iniquities while He was yet being scourged.

This is why He did not need to suffer the torment of punishment of the wicked in the conditions of Hades or Hell. Three times in the scriptures is this understanding emphasized.

Psalms 16:10 says, "For THOU wilt not leave My soul in Hell; neither wilt THOU suffer THINE Holy One to see corruption."

Jesus paid the price and penalty for every person and every single sin committed from Adam till the end of mankind.

Acts 2:27 says, "Because THOU wilt not leave My soul in Hell, neither wilt THOU suffer THINE Holy One to see corruption."

And then, both of these passages are witnessed to in Acts 13:35, "Wherefore HE saith also in another psalm, THOU shalt not suffer THINE Holy One to see corruption."

Jesus is GOD and you cannot kill GOD. Jesus surrendered and submitted, and gave His life as the only sacrifice that GOD would accept as payment in full for the wrath GOD had towards the SIN NATURE of mankind. Jesus paid the full price of our iniquity and redeemed up back to right standing with GOD. But, only, if we will embrace Him as Who He really is, and invite Him into our heart as Savior. From that moment on our eternal destiny is with GOD. In fact, Jesus redeemed us to a far greater standing with GOD that Adam initially enjoyed before the fall. Because of Christ Jesus we have been purchased from our slavery to sin and delivered unto being the Children of GOD and joint-heirs with Christ. We are now free indeed to learn how to rejoice in the Glory of GOD. A part of our inheritance in Christ is experiencing the healing of our wounds of iniquity, trespasses, and trauma we have in our soul. This is why learning THE ALL NEW WAYS OF LIFE IN THE SPIRIT is so crucial to our existence here. But, I must ask; are we living and enjoying such? Are we representing to this world the very Kingdom that we are to be Ambassadors of? This is why I am publishing this information, so that every Child of GOD can become persuaded and confident in their place in the Kingdom of GOD and the Body of Christ. I am endeavoring to help others better understand what GOD is responsible for and what HE has given us responsibility for. We have a real need to understand that when Jesus was being scourged, He was scourged way past what would have killed a mortal man like you and me. The Romans were artist at capital punishment and scourging was a fine art to them. They were not limited to 39 stripes like the Jews. They beat Jesus so badly when He was being scourged that He was unrecognizable. Those who looked at Him were astonished that He was even alive. You cannot kill GOD.

Isaiah 53:4 and 5 tells us, "Surely He hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem Him smitten of GOD, and afflicted. But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon Him; and with His stripes we are healed."

The Roman soldiers scourged the Christ more than they had ever scourged any man before or since. He was scourged so badly that the people that looked upon him were astonished at His appearance.

Isaiah 52:14 explains, "As many were astonied at Thee; His visage was marred more than any man, and His form more than the sons of man:"

For a fact, these Roman torturers were experts at their craft. They knew just how far to take the torture before it killed. Many were condemned to scourging as a form of capital punishment. Scriptures tell us that Jesus was scourged more than any man. And that it pleased GOD to pour out the full measure of HIS wrath upon Him.

Isaiah 52:10 and 11 says, "Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise Him; HE hath put Him to grief: when Thou shalt make His soul an offering for sin, HE shall see His seed, HE shall prolong His days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in His hand. He shall see the travail of His soul, and shall be satisfied: by His knowledge shall MY righteous servant justify many; for He shall bear their iniquities."

What I am saying, is, that if it were possible for Jesus to suffer the punishment of death twice for all mankind He apparently did just that on our behalf. And He, in essence did pay the penalty of death twice. He suffered the wages of committed sin in His physical beating, and He paid the price that of the death penalty of our Sin Nature, effectively redeeming whosoever will back to intimate relations with GOD.

But, man cannot kill GOD. He paid the price of what would have killed you or me when He was scourged for the committed iniquity of all mankind, and He suffered the crucifixion death for our Sin Nature, giving Him legal entry into that domain of the dead. But, like I said before; you cannot kill GOD. Jesus suffered the mocking of the Jews and the Romans and did not talk back. Jesus suffered the scourging and did not even try to defend Himself. Jesus suffered the humiliation and degradation of crucifixion, and yet, while still suffering excruciating agony, He asked the Father to forgive us. Jesus had purpose. Jesus was born into this world to die. Jesus suffered in His body for our committed iniquities. He was bruised for our trespasses. The chastisement of our peace was upon Him. And with the stripes of His scourging we are healed. Jesus died in our place, paying the price for our sin, so that whosoever will accept Him as Messiah and invite Him into their heart as Savior could live in the Kingdom of GOD both now, and hereafter, evermore with Him in Eternity.

Have you ever invited Jesus into your heart as Savior? Do you want salvation from eternal punishment in Hell for your sin? Do you want to invite Jesus to come live in your heart as Lord and Savior? If you want to have salvation from Hell and Eternal life with GOD then pray this Prayer: Lord Jesus, I believe that you are the only begotten Son of GOD. I know that I am a sinner who truly deserves punishment for my sin. I believe that you died on that cross as payment for my sin. I invite You to come and live in me and be my Savior. Amen.

If you have accepted Jesus into your heart as Savior I am asking you to go on-line and write a review telling me of your experience.

The end. James Bell

I want to thank you for reading my letter. I hope that you learned something new that has increased your Faith. If you want to learn more then after you write a review of this book online I want for you to download a copy of "THE ALL NEW WAYS OF LIFE IN THE SPIRIT." I pray that you come to understand intimately what it means to be "BLESSED AND HIGHLY FAVORED OF GOD."
