

## Wives of Cuckolds Tell All

Based on letters to Joan Vegas

Book 4 in a 4-book series about the Cuckold Lifestyle... particularly "Golden Cuckolds"

Wives of Cuckolds Tell All

Smashwords Edition

Copyright © 2019 by Joan Vegas

Thank you for downloading this e-book. It is the copyrighted property of the author and may not be reproduced, scanned, or distributed for any commercial or non-commercial use without permission from the author. Quotes used in reviews are the exception. No alteration of content is allowed. If you enjoyed this book, then encourage your friends to download their own free copy... and read the other Vegas books in this series.

Your support and respect for the property of this author is appreciated.

Adult Reading Material

*****

Author/Compiler Joan Vegas is a woman whose life reflects her belief that women live fuller lives when they have more than one lover to give them sexual pleasure. Joan lives with her two male partners and their four children in the foothills of Colorado's Rocky Mountains. Yes, her guys get their share of variety too! Due to her lifestyle and beliefs, Joan gets lots of letters from couples with similar beliefs and related lifestyles. In this series Joan shares some of those letters (edited for readability and anonymity).

### A Note from Joan Vegas:

These days single women often have the opportunity to enjoy a variety of sex partners. But once a woman gets married she is usually limited to just one sex partner (for better or worse) for the rest of her life.

Fortunately for some married women, their husbands allow (or even encourage) them to occasionally enjoy sexual adventures with other guys. Such husbands don't care that their wife's extra-marital activities technically makes them a cuckold... what I call "Golden Cuckolds".

In the reports below eleven wives (through letters to me) tell what it is like for them to be married to cuckold husbands... to be enabled to enjoy a broader sex life than most of their married sisters.

### My Loving Cuckold Hubby

Dear Joan. Let me tell you why I love my loving cuckold hubby. He tells me he just thinks about how cool it is to see me enjoy myself and be an uninhibited, highly sensual woman with another man.

Ever since we got married, my hubby has been encouraging me to enjoy my sexuality in every way possible. We have great one-on-one sex, but Matt (my hubby) has always encouraged me to try other guys too.

It didn't take me long to take him up on his suggestion. We were out at a bar one night, and a good looking guy started hitting on me. He and I started dancing a lot. When he discovered that I was married, he sort of backed off a bit. Matt came over, patted him on the back, and said, "I'm glad to see you are enjoying my wife. You have my permission to enjoy her to the fullest."

The poor guy was not sure what to think. I just smiled up at him and said, "You heard my husband... you are welcome to enjoy me... to the fullest." He held me closer and began to run his hands over my body. As he was cupping and fondling one of my breasts, Matt came up again and said, "If you'd like to continue that in a more comfortable surrounding... we live just a few blocks away."

Again, the guy was not sure what to think. I cuddled close and whispered, "He means it. Want to come over for some drinks and.....?"

A few minutes later we all headed out the door. Matt drove as my new friend and I began to neck in the back seat. When we got home Matt fixed us all some drinks as I headed for the bedroom. I stripped out of all my clothes and put on a sheer nightgown. Then I walked back into the living room with a wicked look in my eyes. Matt and our new friend were standing there... grinning at me.

I took the drink that Matt had made for me, drank it back fast, and reached down for the guy's pant crotch. Matt stepped back and sat in a chair as I unzipped the guy's pants. Soon we were both naked, on the floor, and I was sucking the guy's cock as Matt watched.

That was the first time I screwed another guy as my Matt enjoyed his drink and watched. The guy sucked me to a great orgasm. Then he put my legs over his shoulders, and pressed his hard cock deep inside me. It felt wonderful... especially knowing that I was having such fun right in front of my husband... with his encouragement.

That was the first of many men I have since enjoyed with my Matt's full blessing.

There is no question about it... Matt is the man I love the most in all the world. But sometimes I wonder what is going through his head... what is he thinking and feeling as other guys have sex with me. What devilish desires are moving within him at those moments?

In a way I have taken for granted his role in our special lifestyle. I usually don't think about what is happening in his mind. However, I am always appreciative that he is such a caring and understanding guy amidst all my extra marital sex. He encourages every opportunity to further my sexual nature, but I guess I haven't always considered his thoughts while everything is taking place.

There has been no question that he seems quite pleased with all I do. I know it brings him joy to see and hear about some of the escapades I get involved in. But, recently I became curious as to what was going on in that head of his.

Matt never really chooses to be involved in the action when I'm playing with another man. They could not be considered threesomes. Matt just seems to enjoy watching me play. During the times I have a guy over to our house, he always just seems to enjoy observing the details of our sex play.

I have gone out on a few "dates" without Matt. Matt is the one who usually says, "I'm going to let you go alone... so the guy doesn't get put off by my presence." He always seems excited when later I tell him all the specifics of my evening. I tell him everything, and then we have great sex together.

I have gotten inquisitive as to what he likes most. This subject first came up a few weeks ago as I was lying on our sofa at home. At that moment I had a very delicious black guy giving it to me in the nasty way that only a well-endowed black stud can. My head was turned for a moment, and I was looking directly at my husband.

He was watching our obscene sex while sitting on one of our living room chairs. He had a look of satisfaction in his eyes... as he always seems to have in such situations. But as I made eye contact with him, his smile seemed to grow much bigger. It was at that moment... for just a second... that I tried to imagine what it might be like to be him, watching and surveying that display of lustful intimacy between his wife and another man.

Though I enjoyed the work-over my pussy was receiving at that moment, I was curious as to what was on my hubby's mind. I had to speak to him, even as the black guy was screwing me. "Do you like what you're seeing?"

His reply was immediate. "Yes babe, so very much honey."

I wanted more detail. I knew I'd have to coax him with a little enticing and persuading to get some specifics. "You really DO like watching this black cock fuck your wife... don't you baby?"

I'm used to talking to my lovers in that nasty tone. But I am not used to talking to my husband as I'm being fucked by another guy. That did it though. My question caused my Matt to open up. It brought out the details of his fantasy thoughts.

"Yes babe, it's really fucking hot watching you right now. But....." Then he stood up and walked closer to us on the sofa. He said, "I'd love to see you talking a little sluttier to him."

I obliged by giving him a steady flow of vulgar dialog filled with four letter words as my black lover continued to plow me deeply and work me through multiple orgasms.

"You should play with your nipples for him too," Matt whispered to me.

Again, I took his direction. I pulled my nipples in various directions, and stretched them far out away from my tits... putting on quite a show for both guys. I even pawed at my own boobies and lifted my nipples up to my lover's mouth, offering myself to him in one more way.

Matt was turning into quite the adult film director. He went on to say: "Why don't you moan a little louder. Let him know you love it?" I found myself moaning with my lover's every plunge. Then Matt said, "Give it back to him. Buck those hips of yours back up at him. Suck him deeper inside you."

I'd never seen Matt get so into it, and I loved seeing him interact with me in my sexual play with my lover.

Later when we were alone, I again begged him to give me more specifics on his thoughts. I told him how much he means to me, and told him I want to make sure he is enjoying himself too... while I enjoy new guys. He reassured me that he enjoys every moment of our lives... including my sex play with other guys. Then he gave me a few thoughts on the matter to make clear all that was on his mind.

Matt assured me that watching me be so thoroughly satisfied by varied partners was his primary fantasy. It was what made him the happiest. He said he couldn't be happier that his deepest fantasy had become our shared reality... and that we were both living out his sexual fantasies "in a shared-love sort of way."

I asked him to help me better understand what he gets out of watching another guy screw me. He was quiet for a moment. Then he said, "You have a pussy. I don't. From everything I read, I understand that a pussy has a lot of nerve endings in it... allowing a woman to savor a wide variety of special female sensations as her pussy is licked, sucked, and filled with a cock. I can't experience those many sensations that I know you can. But watching other guys do you, I can watch your body react, and I can vicariously sense what your pussy is feeling, and enjoy it with you."

He went on to tell me he has learned to observe when an extra thick or long cock stimulates new areas within my pussy. "I love to see you enjoy those sensations," he said. "I can even tell by the look on your face or the reactions of your body when a new lover is expanding within you, ready to spray your insides." I asked him if he liked knowing that. "Yah," he said, "I know you are about to feel a flood of additional sensations that may well take you over the top. That's cool to watch!"

"I'm sure my body does those things while you are licking or screwing me," I told him. He replied "I'm sure it does, but at those times my mind and body are so wrapped up in having sex with you that I can't fully observe and appreciate what is going on in your body. That's why I love watching other guys do you."

Then Matt informed me that often what he thought about while he watched me was how my sex with the other guy could be a little dirtier or a bit nastier. Apparently he just wants to see me be as crude as possible, and see me doing things (and having things done to me) as vulgar as can be. I think his exact words during the conversation were: "The sluttier you get, the more turned-on I get. I just think about how cool it is to see you enjoy yourself and be an uninhibited, highly sensual woman for another man."

So that's it! I should have known a man's mind wasn't much more complicated than that. It did get me thinking about how to turn him on more though. Now I express myself verbally (more than I used to) while another guy is playing with my body and screwing me. My words let both my lover and my husband know how good I feel as I experience new kinds of sex play and a new cock.

The one thing that Matt loves is to screw my well-used pussy right after another guy has filled me with his cum, and left. As soon as a lover leaves, I enjoy sucking my Matt to hardness (if he is not already hard), and then welcoming him deep inside my pussy.

By that point I am usually ready for more relaxed, loving, love-making. Matt tells me my pussy feels "extra velvety" after I have been fucked by another guy, and the guy has left his load inside me.

If Matt is highly aroused when he first enters me on those occasions, he may reach a climax quickly. But, if he does, we just relax until I can get him hard again, and we cuddle and fuck more leisurely after that.

Shelly

### I Love Putting On a Show for My Husband

Whenever I am having sex with a lover and my husband is watching, I always feel like I am putting on a sexy show for his enjoyment. He loves to watch me getting fucked, and knowing that he is watching always adds to my enjoyment as well.

It is like I am starring in a private porno movie for my husband to watch and enjoy. I want it to be super-hot and erotic, so that it turns him on, and so that he gets aroused by watching me.

I keep looking at him, meeting his gaze, making eye contact, even when I have another man's cock in my mouth, making it clear to him that I love him and only him, even though I am having sex with other men.

Even as I am cumming, my treacherous body wracked with orgasmic quakes and quivering with delight, I am still staring into my cuckold hubby's eyes, with a loving look.

Susan

### I Am Writing This for Your Female Readers

### At the Suggestion of My Husband

Joan, my reports to you (below) are based on my actual experiences. I am writing, at my husband's suggestion, so you may share my thoughts and experiences with open-minded people of similar desires or fantasies.

I'm delighted to share these experiences so others may use them to experience their own expanded sexual pleasures. I encourage other wives and girlfriends to experiment with their men in similar interludes if they choose. I'm just being myself, and am pleased to have a loving husband who shares my desires and fantasies with me.

My name is Beverly, and I'm an uninhibited married woman. The strangest and most incredible thing happened to me recently. It was an event that left me feeling so wonderfully liberated!

Since that day, my mind has been in a whirl of euphoria, and I am having a ton of fun! I feel so totally free and wildly wanton.

I've finally admitted to myself who I really am, and what I'm really like. It is absolutely incredibly exciting to throw off the shackles of prudish monogamy, so that I don't have to pretend not to lust for sex with other guys I meet anymore. By fucking another man, I allowed myself the freedom to enjoy sex and nudity, and all their wonderful variations, as one of the things that make being a woman so great. I have finally entered into the hot wife/cuckold lifestyle by acknowledging my true nature.

Yes, I now freely admit that I am a woman who loves to be fucked, and needs to be fucked by lots and lots of sweet hard cocks. I am a wife and young mother, slightly overweight, but still pretty, a married woman, with big married breasts, a round shapely married ass, and a juicy-wet married pussy, who just loves to fuck more than just one man.

Okay, just backing off a bit, and keeping things in perspective: I admit that it sounds like I'm going pretty wild and crazy, and most people would say that I am engaging in abnormal and risky behavior. Maybe I am going overboard with all the slut-whore stuff. But instead of being demeaning, the titles "sexy" and "sensual" give me a sense of empowerment and liberation.

To me, "a cock lover" is just a strong, sexually self-assured woman who is not afraid to go against societal norms, and fully explore and express her sexuality in the same way that men have always expressed theirs. Who says we women can't be sexually assertive just like men are?

Anyway, how can something that is so beautiful, that feels so good and right, that is so much fun and natural, be wrong or bad for me... especially when my husband feels so positive and is so supportive about what I'm doing?

So from now on, to help me maintain an even keel, to keep things sorted out and to quiet down my whirling mind, I'm starting a sort of journal of my experiences with the help of my loving husband.

I admit it... I am a cock craver. I think a cock is a wonderful thing to behold, and when hard it gives me such pleasure to feel it enter and give pleasure to my vagina. Those sensations instantly flow throughout my body and send quick signals of joy to my brain. Experiencing new and varied cocks just seems to magnify that pleasure and joy.

Yes, I am a married woman who fucks other guys in addition to my husband. That makes me what everyone calls a slut or a whore, right? Well, I love it! I guess that makes my hubby a "cuckold," but he doesn't mind that role. He loves the new me too! It makes me finally free to be myself; a sexual being who is free to choose my own sexual behavior and partners.

What makes everything even more fun and exciting is that my sweet husband, Marty, loves the new me (or, as Marty says, the real me) even more than before. I can't believe I'm such a lucky girl! I knew I was especially lucky because Marty fucked me so sweetly after I came home today and told him how I had just fucked my new boyfriend, Vince. If Marty is going to keep fucking me like that whenever I have sex with someone else, I can't wait for every chance I can get to fucked by Vince again!

I guess I should start at the beginning. I've always had a strong sex drive, and loved to fuck. I've been strongly attracted to other people all my life, and I've always been especially fascinated with cocks and the men they're attached to. So many different shapes and sizes; so little time!

I was a girl of the late '90's when I first started fucking, so I was pretty adventurous before I got married, and I got to know a couple of dozen sweet penises very intimately. So, I guess I've always been a cock lover. But when I got married to Marty, I bought into the conventional morality that married people weren't supposed to fuck around.

Nevertheless, I've always needed to have several orgasms every day, and even though Marty and I have always had great sex, and he always makes me cum, I would fantasize about sucking and fucking other guys when I masturbated. I needed more.

Everything has changed now. For about a year I had been flirting with this guy, Vince, a handsome man who works in another office in the same building as I do. I always thought I ought to feel guilty, but it was fun and exciting to flirt with him in the hallways at work and at a bar where Marty and I hang out with friends.

Vince came on to me pretty strongly, making it obvious that he was attracted to me. He would always make little risqué comments about my tits and ass, what a sexy mouth I have, and what we would be like in bed together. He made it very clear that he wanted to fuck me.

However, even though it was tremendously exciting and made me feel so sexy and attractive, I would just laugh and teasingly remind him that I'm married. But, afterward, I would always go back to my desk with my mind in a whirl and a dripping wet pussy. I would sit there and imagine what his cock looked like and how it would feel in my mouth or pussy, as I fingered my clit under my desk and quietly had an orgasm.

Then, right after work on the day that changed my life, I dropped in at our favorite bar for a quick drink. Marty and I had tickets to a baseball game, and I had a few minutes, so I was just going to have a quick drink to relax before going home to shower, change, and join my husband. I was laughing and kicking back with several of the regulars, and was about half way through my drink when Vince came in.

Like I said, I had desperately wanted to fuck other guys, especially Vince, for a long time. However, I had stubbornly resisted, inventing all kinds of stupid excuses to avoid it. I really don't know what changed that night. I guess the dam holding back all my sexual repression just burst.

I had occasionally told Marty that I thought Vince was sexy. Although we never had any conversations about me fucking Vince, a couple times Marty did say, "I'll bet you'd enjoy getting him in bed with you." Neither time did I reply, nor did the conversation go further.

The fact is, everything did change that night, and I just naturally started being a cock-craver. The moment I saw Vince, I instantly threw all caution to the wind and started flirting with him shamelessly. A couple buttons on my blouse "mysteriously" came open, so Vince (and some of the others) could clearly see my full breasts jiggling in the lacy bra I was wearing.

I gave him a big hug and started making lots of physical contact with him, touching his hand or resting my hand on his leg, finding opportunities to brush my tits against him, and leaning into him every time we shared a laugh. I let my hand rest higher and higher on his thigh, and I could feel whenever his hardening cock throbbed or twitched.

I wanted it so badly, it was all I could do not to grab it right there. Finally, after a particularly funny moment, when I had collapsed on his chest in laughter, we found ourselves looking into each other's eyes and I impulsively just reached up and pulled his mouth down to mine.

There I stood, a married woman brazenly kissing a man who was not my husband. I pressed my tits against his chest and ground my pussy against his leg. I let his tongue explore my mouth, feeling his arms around me, inhaling his manly scent... so similar, yet different than my husband's.

I suddenly felt so deliciously free to kiss him like that! I felt so beautifully warm and lovely and wanton! I knew that some of the men there had seem how I was acting, and may have been thinking that they might have a chance to fuck me. That thought was making my knees weak. It made my pussy ache for cock. I licked and nibbled Vince's ear, as I whispered to him that I wanted him to fuck me, that I needed his cock.

I told him that I wanted him to make me cum. It was so incredibly easy to let go! The police didn't burst in to arrest me. I didn't turn into a toad. The sky didn't fall, the world didn't end. All that happened was that Vince immediately said that I should go home with him. However, I just gently squeezed his hard-on and told him that I didn't want to wait that long for his cock. I whispered that I had a better idea... that I would allow him to fuck me right away. I waved goodbye to the people around us, took his hand and I led him out of the bar.

I don't know where I got the guts to do that. I was just so hot for him. I wanted to fuck him so badly that I used my office key and took him up to my deserted office, just a few blocks away. I was shaking with incredible excitement and anticipation.

I had only had one drink, but I felt almost drunk with the euphoria of doing something so completely and shockingly naughty and different from anything I had ever done before. Of course, we were all over each other, feeling each other up in the elevator, and I stroked and tickled his hard cock which was straining for release.

Leaving the lights off in the outer office, we went into the executive suite. I told Vince to sit down and make himself comfortable on the big leather sofa. Before he fucked me, I wanted to be fully exposed to him. I needed to completely cast away the last vestiges of respectability. I wanted for him to see exactly what kind of a woman he was about to have.

Slowly, almost unconsciously, I began to undress for him, performing the most erotic dance that I could. In the light of the street lights and a dim office light, I showed him what a tease I really am. He just sat back and smiled, as he watched me display myself to him. He pulled out his lovely cock, and stroked his beautiful erection.

I looked deep into his eyes and physically showed him how much I wanted and needed to be fucked. I displayed every part of my body to him, until I stood before him completely naked. I pinched my nipples and fingered my dripping pussy. Deliciously, totally exposed, I stood with my legs wide apart before him and masturbated for my new lover, so he could see me cum. I collapsed on the carpet, as my first huge orgasm washed across me. Crawling across the floor to him, I whorishly licked my own juices from my fingers.

His beautiful hard cock was directly level with my face, as I crawled. Oh, My God! His cock! His balls! His lovely, hard penis!! I was transfixed; the first real live cock, other than Marty's, that I had seen in several years! I couldn't take my eyes off it. God, it was unbelievably gorgeous! I ached for it. I had to have it.

Panting, drooling, shaking and trembling with lust, I knelt before him and worshipped this lovely new penis. I completely lost myself in a rush of lust as I closely examined every incredible inch of it, inhaling his wonderful manly smell. I rubbed its silky length and hardness all over my face, as I gave myself to that beautiful penis.

Greedily, hungrily, I started licking and sucking the beautiful new cock, reveling in all the wonderful differences and similarities to Marty's. It was a bit thicker than Marty's, so I opened wide to get as much of his beautiful hardness as I could in my mouth.

I licked up and down the hard shaft, feeling the bulging veins with my lips and tongue. I tasted his pre-cum, sucking and nibbling on the helmet head, tonguing the sweet little hole at the tip. Vince quickly took control and held my head in his hands, as he began to fuck my mouth. I eagerly and completely submitted to his cock, as I sucked and squeezed with my lips, worshipped it with my tongue, trying to swallow more and more of him every time he thrust his hardness against the back of my throat.

It was just seconds before he filled my hungry mouth with his cum. God, it was delicious! I nearly fainted from the excitement of having another man's cum in my mouth, as I greedily swallowed as much as I could, and rubbed the rest into my face and breasts while he returned the favor and licked my sopping pussy.

By then I was so hot that he hardly had to do more than breathe on my clit before I exploded into a mind-bending orgasm, screaming incoherently: "FUUUUUCK!! Yes! Fuck me NOW! Fuckmefuckmefuckmefuckme!!! Fuck my pussy!! I need your cock in my pussy NOW!! Give me your cock! Fill me with your cum! FUCK ME!!!"

I sucked him hard again, and he eagerly obliged me as I just went crazy, pushing him onto his back so I could ride his fat cock, bucking my pussy on his beautiful penis and fucking him on the office sofa. I can't tell you how deliciously wanton and naughty it made me feel! I was screaming in orgasm after orgasm, shaking my tits, pinching my nipples and rubbing my clit, as I told Vince I was a married cock lover, his lover, his married whore to use and fuck completely with that gorgeous, beautiful, delicious fat cock!

If anybody was working late and had been paying attention in the office building across the street, they would have seen quite a show! Vince eventually pushed me up against the floor-to-ceiling plate glass window overlooking the street below, and fucked me hard and deep from behind, as I fingered my clit. He was slapping my ass and making me cum over and over before he came again deep inside my pussy.

In exhaustion we collapsed in each other's arms onto the plush carpet. Vince still wanted me to go home with him, but I told him that my husband was waiting. I said that I would love to fuck him again, but that would depend upon what happened when I got home to Marty. Vince walked me to the parking lot, and we shared a long and sweet goodnight kiss before I headed home.

I had finally let myself become the woman that I have always wished I could be. I fucked my new lover Vince, and I felt like a new woman! I decided I needed to be alone as I contemplated what I had just done. When Vince left I sat for some time in my car.

I had just cheated on my husband for the first time, and my mind was in turmoil. The night was warm, and I let my whirling mind drift to the memory of Vince's sweet penis, as the scent of his cum on my skin, and the taste of it on my lips, filled my senses. The images were so vivid that it was almost like Vince was there in the car with me.

I could almost feel the bulbous head of his sweet cock on my lips, the ridge of the big vein running the length of his penis, the way it pulsed as I slipped the tip of my tongue into the little slit at the end and tasted his pre-cum. My God, his cock was so beautiful.

I started driving home. I hadn't put my thong back on after we fucked, so it was easy for me to let my hand drift down to my soaking pussy and bring the delicious taste of his cum up to my lips. I slouched in the seat and let my fingers play on my clit. I shuddered in a series of sweet orgasms, as I relived each episode with Vince. Time seemed to stop.

The next thing I was aware of was pulling into our street and hitting the garage door opener. As I walked through the garage door into the house, the realization of what I had done flooded over me. Now I had to face the moment of truth. I knew that Marty was waiting for me to come home to change for the game.

He would be relaxing with a beer. He would be a little anxious, but there was still time for us to make the seven o'clock pitch. But, I had just fucked another man. How would he react? I was nervous, scared and excited. I was terrified, yet tremendously aroused at the thought of confessing to my dear husband that I had become an unfaithful wife and was covered in another man's cum. How would he react? What would he do? I paused in the hallway for a moment, hoping that he would be as excited as I was.

Marty was exactly where I knew he would be, nicely dressed in Levis and a team shirt, with a cold Molson. He glanced up from his newspaper as I walked in. As his gaze met mine, I dissolved into tears. Huge sobs racked my body, as I stood before my husband. Marty immediately sprang to my side and took me in his arms, stroking my hair, kissing me tenderly on the forehead.

"Oh my God, "I sobbed, "I just had sex with Vince. Do you still love me?"

Marty just held me tighter. "Yes my love, my sweet, sweet Beverly. You are my dear, sweet wife and I love you. I know. Anyone who saw you would be able to tell you have just been fucked. I can smell the scent of his cum. It is very sexy. It is obvious that you are a cock craver, and I love you even more for it."

Marty kissed me, as my sobs subsided, tasting Vince's cum on my lips. "You are my delicious little hot wife, and tonight is the beginning of a wonderful new life together."

Marty dried my tears and gently began to undress me. As he revealed each part of my body he took the time to kiss and caress it. By the time I stood completely naked, I was seething with lust for my wonderful, understanding and loving husband.

Marty stepped back and looked at my naked body. I was frozen in anxiety and anticipation, but standing there completely revealed as the hot wife I was... was also wildly exciting. My pussy was dripping with the exhilaration of newfound freedom and adventure.

"My sweet baby, you stand before me, as the woman I always knew and hoped you could be." He stepped forward and took each nipple between thumb and forefinger. As he firmly pinched my jutting nipples, he said, "Look into my eyes, and remember what I'm about to tell you. Beverly, you are my wife, you are a woman, and you are insatiable. You need cock. You need many hard penises to be a truly happy and a complete woman. You have my permission to fulfill your desires whenever you wish. I only ask that you always check with me first so I won't worry where you are, and that you only spend the night with a lover if I am there with you, or if I am away from home and can't fuck you myself. That is the courtesy I expect from my wife."

Marty took me in his arms and kissed me passionately. "I love you, and I am proud that my wife is uninhibited. I am proud that you have the vitality and courage to live life to the fullest. I love you," he whispered while kissing me.

Marty gently pushed me to my knees. "Beverly, you are kneeling before me naked, an admitted a cock lover. Take my cock in your mouth." I opened Marty's slacks, released his erect penis, and took its length in my mouth.

He went on: "There you are, the perfect picture of a woman sucking cock. Just a few minutes ago, you sucked another man's cock and no doubt swallowed his cum. Now, you are kneeling there with my cock in your mouth. However, you must always remember that a woman in that position has all the power. You are in control now. You are the one who determines if and when I cum. You have what other people want, the freedom and ability to give and take pleasure. It is your responsibility, and your privilege."

I looked up into my husband's eyes. His loving and enthusiastic response to my revelation that I had just fucked another man was tremendously exciting. The familiar taste and feel of Marty's hard cock in my mouth was thrilling.

After having just sucked Vince, the differences between the two made me love Marty's cock even more than before. The way it curves slightly to the left. The sharp ridge around the base of his head, and the scent was more musky than Vince, yet not as sharp. His taste was sweeter but not as salty. The comfortable fullness in my mouth gave me courage, and a newfound sense of adventure.

Marty carried me to our bed and screwed me for the next hour. Over and over he kept telling me how much he loved me, and how happy he was that I had finally opened myself to uninhibited sexual pleasure. We finally made it to the baseball game, even though we missed the first 3 innings.

Yes, with my husband's encouragement, I have enjoyed Vince several times since that first time. And, I have enjoyed a few more delightful cocks too.

Beverly

### Pepper Tells How She and Hubby

### Add Spice to Their Sex Life

This is a true story about me, my husband, and the way we add spice to our wonderful sex life. I am a Hispanic lady, age 32, and my husband is Caucasian, age 35. As you read my story, please don't think we have never had a bad experiences or troubles. There have been some less-than-favorable experiences

Exploring outside-the-home sexual experiences occasionally have an ingredient or two that are less than wonderful. No one wants to hear too much of that. So, Joan, in this report I have stayed with what pleased me.

Some quick background: We didn't start our marriage doing what you are about to read. But through role-playing, fantasies, fantasy reading, etc., my husband and I both developed a fascination with the idea of other men (even strangers) having sex with me... and then my husband listening to details of my adventure, and having sex with me as I share them with him.

By the way, don't get the idea that I enjoy sex with other guys due to some shortcoming in my husband's bedroom skills. My husband is a wonderful lover. This is just fantasy fulfillment we decided to try. And since giving it a try, we have discovered that we both love this shared variation in our sex life.

For those to whom it may be important, I stand 5' 4", typically weigh about 130 lbs., have deep brown eyes, and have what I consider smallish breasts (B cup). But, my breasts remain upright (almost cone-like), and have long nipples that get stiff and pointy when I am aroused.

His most explicit fantasy is for me to dress slutty (heavy on the lipstick) and have sex with a stranger... then come right home for him to get on me and do all the same things I did with the stranger, before I clean up. My fantasy is to have sex with other men and to broaden my experiences, but it doesn't matter quite as much to me about dressing in an extreme manner.

And so... as an example of the way we have fantasy-fulfilling sexual fun....

On one particular summer evening in July of last year, my getting-ready started in my usual way. It was Friday night, which is the best night for dance lounge visits - crowded, standing room only, live music, a dimly-lit dance area where it is easy to share the spotlight with other women and girls who are dressed nicely too.

I took a long hot bath. I had earlier discovered that I could increase my internal sexual heat by bringing a few old Penthouse magazines to the tub with me. Even just browsing the stories tends to turn me on.

It was just that type of reading that my husband (Allan) and I did in the beginning of our marriage, which got our minds drifting off in this erotic direction in the first place. Yes, like many other people, we think many of the stories are fiction and come from male imaginations, but we always felt that some seemed quite real... and the sum total left us with a desire to experiment.

As we made that decision (which we did not do lightly), I told Allan that if anyone found out they would think him a Cuckold. He said, "Maybe, but I think of it as sharing my sexy wife for our mutual pleasure." Actually, I have never thought of him as a Cuckold (even if that may be a correct term), because there is never any humiliation in our relationship, and I never try to introduce any kind of submission into our relationship. Besides, we had made a pact that no one we knew was ever to find out about our special relationship.

If I were to dress when I go out as Allan envisioned me to dress, I'd be almost naked in a tight-fitting silk slip and high heels. But that's not realistic outside our own home.

That night I wore a very white one-piece mini-dress, accented with a wide red leather belt, red heels, very red lipstick, nylons, and a few pieces of costume jewelry. Have I worn garters before? Yes, but usually on special occasions, and with dresses that can carry it off well. This night I wore lacy panties. Sometimes Allan convinces me to leave the panties at home.

May I say here that my language at home is pretty tame, but in this story I'll describe things the way men are more accustomed to. I mean language different than what I allow myself at home, near family.

Allan finds it very hard not to want sex with me during my preparation period. But we both want it delayed. Him... because when I get home, after an evening of anticipation... the moment will be more intense if he waits. And me... because although Allan wants me as a "used, cum-filled woman," I want to present myself fresh to whomever I meet later in the evening.

In the early days of my adventures I would remove my wedding ring. One night I had forgotten to remove it. I discovered that I actually got hit on more often while I was wearing the ring. I guess some men like the idea of hitting on a married woman. As one guy told me, single women can sometimes get a little clingy or possessive, whereas married women usually want more discretion, and no long-term entanglements.

These days I never bother removing my wedding ring. There have actually been times while a new guy had himself buried inside me and I would glance over at my ring. That would remind me that the pleasure I was enjoying was with my husband's permission, and was intended to be shared with him for his pleasure as soon as I got home.

I left the house around 9 PM. It took me 20 minutes to get to the lounge of my choice. It's one that I'm comfortable with, and one where my husband and I have both been before. It took me another 10 minutes in the car, building up some courage to go in.

As usual, I was sexually very stimulated at being able to play with this extra-marital-sex lifestyle with my husband's permission and encouragement. I love sex, and have grown to really enjoy my fantasy nights out. But I also tend to be on the reserved side (personality wise) and more submissive in nature. So in some ways, dressing slutty in public, and being reserved in private, is like two colliding worlds. I usually don't fully calm down and relax until after about 10 minutes inside the lounge, and it helps to be dancing.

As expected, it was crowded inside. The band was playing loudly, and my eyes took a while to adjust to the low lighting. I was immediately approached by a man who bought me a drink. Although I wasn't particularly attracted to him, I took it. We engaged in some mild conversation just so I could keep busy for a bit. We even danced one number. I was feeling more comfortable by that point, and my eyes began to take in a wider perspective of the crowd.

Eventually I excused myself and stepped off by myself for a bit. Soon an older gentleman asked me to dance. He was quite handsome and well dressed. I accepted. We went off for three dances, both slow and fast. I found him to be quite nice. I also quickly noticed that he was quite horny... and had had enough to drink that he looked oh so very relaxed. I was getting a little horny too by then, and I allowed him to hold me pretty firmly around the waist as we talked for a while near the bar stools.

It wasn't necessarily my desire to stay until the place closed. I just wanted to have a nice (hopefully exciting) sexual experience, and then go home to my husband to finish up a fulfilling evening. So even though this man had a lot to drink, I was considering him for what he might be capable of giving me in the way of raw sex and quick romance if we were to go off somewhere. But could he drive? I was having some doubts too as to how it would work out with him.

Fortunately I hadn't committed myself yet, and could still comfortably dash off to dance with another man from time to time, or make a trip to the restroom without that man getting upset.

After one of those quick trips to the restroom, a much younger guy (who I learned was named Ronny) approached me and asked me to dance. We did, and ended up dancing all the way until the band took a break.

I suspected Ronny was married, but he wasn't particularly revealing much of his personal life as we talked. At least not the domestic part of his life. I admitted to him that I was married though, and he was only interested in whether my husband was also at the club that night. Once hearing that he wasn't, Ronny continued his flirtatious interest. He looked 7 or 8 years my junior. I didn't ask, and he didn't inquire much on the subject either. He had to know our obvious age difference though.

The band began another set, and we went back onto the dance floor. It was so crowded that couples were constantly brushing against each other, lightly bumping. By that point I had developed a strong attraction to Ronny, so it was exciting feeling him draw me in close, with his arm around my waist. Mine were around his neck.

As he let his hands roam down the sides of my dress, and softly around my bottom, I was feeling relaxed and increasingly hot. I just let my body follow his as we moved slowly around the dance floor. Eventually I could feel his erection pushing firmly against my abdomen from inside his pants. I felt sure I had a good prospect for what I wanted.

He was commenting on my perfume and the softness of my body and the silkiness of my dress. His hands were starting to find a home on my rear end. He used his hands to pull me closer to him... closer against his erection.

I found myself helping him a little... though subtly. I was even having heated fantasies of the power of Ronny's penis. It is a recurring fantasy of mine... about the impregnating potential of a man's cock. I imagined Ronny's penis trying hard to work its way into my reproductive canal... to impregnate me with very potent sperm... to mate with me, and to leave me laying open-legged on the floor somewhere. It's just one of my fantasies.

When the dance ended, I excused myself for a moment to go to the restroom. I walked through the crowd, down the hall. Before getting to the bathroom, I found that the had-too-much-to-drink man had followed me. He was still very nice, still very horny. He looked even older under the brighter lights, but that didn't make a difference. There was still something attractive and adventurous about him.

He put his hands around me and pulled me toward him. He wanted to dance some more, even though he knew I was with another man right then. He wasn't troublesome. Maybe that's why I felt comfortable with him.

I was nice to him and permitted his hands to explore my body through my dress, and to take a quick liberty with my breast, before I leaned forward and gave him a nice kiss and told him it would be great to talk with him again on another evening, but that I had to leave for the moment. He was very cooperative... more so than some would have been. Nice person, but I wondered if he'd get home OK.

In the restroom, I put on some more lipstick, and in the stall I inserted my secondary birth control, a spritz of foam that includes spermicide (I am also on the pill). I never insist my outside-of-home partners use a condom, because of Allan's desire to feel another man's cum inside of me when he pushes his own penis in to fuck his "used wife."

From the payphone I made a quick call home, and pretended I was talking to a babysitter, just in case Ronny would walk up to me. It was just a pre-arranged way of telling my husband that I had met someone, and that I was confident sex was in the cards. It gave him a confirmed sense of anticipation... that his reward would indeed be coming... later.

Back on the dance floor, Ronny's hands returned to roaming my body, and the renewed sexual tension between us seemed to quickly reactivate the rock-hardness of his cock. I gave him a light kiss on the lips to make sure it didn't go away, and to let him know I shared his interest in sex. Moments later he took me by the hand and led me outside to his car. It was right out front.

We drove to another parking spot in a more darkened area, but still among the hordes of other parked cars. In the privacy, Ronny kissed me. Our tongues were rapidly probing each other's mouths. What a wonderful make-out he was. My husband has a fetish for me in lipstick, but he often wipes it off his mouth after the first kiss. Ronny didn't stop. He was consuming me, and I liked it.

He pulled down the elastic top of my dress. I helped him unsnap my bra. The warmth and softness of his hands on my breasts as he cupped them, squeezed them, and pooching out my nipples so his mouth could softly clamp around them... was exciting. There is just something extra stimulating about feeling the touch of a strange man's hands playing with my breasts. I love it.

I didn't hesitate in making my sensual desires known to Ronny. I encouraged him to cup his entire mouth over my tit... and to suck as much in as he could... then to move back and forth in a milking motion, stretching it out as far as he could, and then back in. That kind of sex play is highly exciting to me. It drives me to new ecstasies as sexual foreplay goes on.

I grappled with his pants. Ronny undid his belt, his zipper, and tried to slip off his pants. Finally he had to step outside the car to get them off. Then he threw them in the back seat. The man was wonderfully naked from the waist down in front of me... and his hard cock went right into my mouth as I bent over to welcome him back inside the car.

Ronny's hands went back to my breasts. His caresses felt so good. As I continued to suck on him, I could feel him pulling my dress up over my ass, and trying to push down my nylons. We were both a little out of breath, and I told him I may not have enough room in there to slide them off easily... but that I wanted to get them off. He wanted me to get out of the car and come over to his side, the darker side where the distant parking lot light wasn't reaching us so brightly.

We both stood outside of the car, and I leaned my back against it. Ronny stood before me. As I held the hem of my dress up to my waist, Ronny gently pulled my nylons down and off. He then slid my lace panties down. Before he rose back to his feet his face went between my legs, and he started kissing my pubic mound. I savored the wonderful sensations my new friend was giving me.

I was leaning against the car. I actually had my left leg lifted up slightly, and definitely out, as Ronny's tongue entered me and explored as far in as it could. My hand was at the back of his head, pulling him into me.

Finally I asked him to come up to me. He stood up and embraced me. His penis was sticking between my legs, looking for the right place. When it found my pussy, Ronny plunged in so fast and hard, that I winced a little. Then I felt the car against my shoulders. I guess I was leaning far back, in compliance with Ronny's penetrating thrusts.

I was feeling very much like a bitch in heat. Ronny was verbal and descriptive... but also respectful. Secretly I was fantasizing about him not being so respectful as he had sex with me. In my own dream world, I was conjuring up his aggressive voice calling me his bitch, and telling me that I was the whore he had been looking for.

After several minutes of great fucking, Ronny turned me around. He wanted to fuck me from behind too, and I gave in to his desire. I could feel him position his penis up against my anal hole, but I quickly readjusted him to my vagina, and leaned out further for him. Ronny didn't object or try my back door again.

He entered my vagina from behind, pressed deeply into me, and I was the first to climax. Believe me... it was a memorable climax... a climax that left my head spinning for a bit. My hands were sprawled across the trunk of his car, and Ronny's hands went from holding onto my tits, to holding onto my hips, as he humped back and forth against me. I enjoyed every thrust!

He was also quick to come. I could sense when he was reaching his climax. Quickly he ejaculated his cum inside of me. I knew he had finished... but to my surprise he didn't stop. He kept humping as long as he could keep it up... and I let him. I was probably feeling more pleasure than he was at that point. I thought it an enjoyable new experience that a man would not stop suddenly after climaxing and emptying himself of cum. I really enjoyed the feel of his warm, slick post-ejaculation thrusts.

For a while we could hardly move. I turned around. We embraced and held each other. Ronny really wanted to sit down, so we got back into his car, but not before throwing some clothes on first.

Inside we reclined the seats and talked for a while, recuperating. I put on some lipstick, and a little perfume. We touched some more, and did some light petting. I felt his cock. It was soft, but I enjoyed looking at it and feeling it. He kissed me and caressed my breasts for a while. He told me he would be watching for me on future visits to the dance lounge. I told him I would welcome that, but I never gave him my phone number. To Allan and me, that is a no-no. And, of course I did not ask for a way to contact him.

It was after 2 AM when I arrived back home. As is customary, my husband was in bed, wide awake, waiting for me to come to him. I always freshen my make-up before going into the house, and then I sit next to him on the edge of the bed.

He asked if I "did it." Of course I said "yes... it happened." He also always wants to know if it was a good experience (in other words, he wants to know if am I in a good mood), or did something negative happen. "It was nice. I had a great time. I liked it," I told him.

Then... as I always do... I started to tell him about the evening. His hand went to my thigh... soon moving up to my pussy hole. I knew he could feel the slipperiness of the cum that was still sticking to the sides of my vagina. As is often the case, I didn't get far into my story before he got on top of me to penetrate my "indecent receptacle of another man's cum."

Those are Allan's special moments... his fantasy come true... the time when his hard penis is surrounded by the slippery warmth of a stranger's cum... in bed with his adventurous wife, who is still unwashed, still smelling the same as I had an hour earlier in the parking lot... still faithful to our marriage, still adventurous.

I guess most women could not do what I do... and I think most men could not handle having their wife do what I do. But Allan and I find that my periodic adventures add a great deal of spice to our shared sex life. And, to be honest, I am glad my Allan allows (encourages) me to have these little adventures. They give me a chance to experience a variety of guys, and a variety of styles of sex play. It is fun to experience different sizes and shapes of penises too.

All in all, I am glad we opened ourselves to this special kind of sex play. Allan never exhibits any jealousy, and I always come right home to be sure he gets his "special moments" to play in my cum-filled pussy when my night of sexual adventure is over. We always seem to talk about those sessions for days afterward, and they stimulate some really great sex between us.

From Pepper

### My Hubby Loves to Have Me Cuckold Him

First some quick background. My hubby and I have been married nearly twenty years. We are happy, and the sex is and has always been good between us.

About five months ago, at my hubby's suggestion (after some subtle hints from me), I became his hot wife, and he became my cuckold hubby. That means that my wonderful hubby accepts that he must share my pussy with other men. And he does so gladly.

Since formally becoming a hot wife, I have fucked six men (mostly younger) while my cuck hubby watches. As part of our deal, he promises to keep his cock exclusively for me. This works for us, because nothing seems to turn my hubby on more than to see me energetically fucking another man (which, by the way, I love to do), and I have no interest in sharing my sexy hubby with another woman.

Joan, my hubby is not "wimpy" in any way. In fact, in almost all things he tends to be the one in charge. He has a nice sized cock, and his sex drive is pretty high. It's simply that in this one area we have agreed that I get to call the shots. And I enjoy calling the shots.

One day we were lying in bed and I reached over and began slowly stroking my husband's nice big cock, making it hard. "MMM... that had an effect," I said.

"MmmHmm," he replied, enjoying my touch. I decided to test out my new status with him. "Whose cock is this?" I teased, while stroking him up and down. "Yours of course," he replied. "That's right, all mine. No one else's. You can only put it inside me," I replied.

"But who's is this?" I said, placing his hand on my already wet pussy.

"Mine?" he half-asked, half-said. "Nope," I said, "try again" "Yours?"

"That's right, mine and the men I chose to share it with," I replied, "and then you, afterward."

So far we're enjoying this arrangement a lot. As I said, in the past five months I've been fucked by six men. They have ranged in age from 28 to 43 (I am 47, and still have a good bod). And when I fuck, I fuck them completely, totally enjoying the experience of having another man in my pussy... totally enjoying that I have the ability to make other men hot and horny, and especially enjoying that I can make a variety of men reach hot climaxes.

And, as part of our deal, my hubby has the privilege of witnessing all that I do with these other guys, and then the privilege of showing his appreciation by pleasing me with his mouth and cock after my lovers have left. I especially love when he goes down on me after I've been well fucked.

Having my pussy eaten by my husband after he has just watched another man's dick playing inside me, turns me on so much! I love the sense of control and power I feel, as if I'm being worshipped for being a hot wife!

This past week hubby and I were spending a few days in a local hotel while attending a meeting. We decided to invite a lover (who has had me before), over for a few hours of fun. He came (and I do mean CAME) that night.

Our friend (Bob) is 14 years younger than me, but as I told my hubby, "He sure knows what to do with his tongue." Bob had to work late, so he suggested that hubby and I go to dinner, and he would show up at our hotel room at about 9 PM. We thought that was a good idea, and my hubby brought some bourbon for cocktails, and had ice available in the room for when Bob arrived.

The plan was to go to a nearby restaurant, have a light meal, and get back in time for Bob's arrival. Before heading out to dinner however, hubby and I decided to take a bath together. The hotel room had a large, two-person Jacuzzi. Whenever we stay there we like to have a soak.

It felt great, and I have to admit that I was feeling very aroused to be taking a Jacuzzi with my husband in preparation for a visit from another man. Soon my hubby started to caress and kiss me. I kissed him back.

"Are you excited about Bob coming over?" he asked me. "Absolutely," I replied. Looking deeply into his eyes, I realized that I really was. I was in a Jacuzzi with my husband, getting ready for another man, and I was excited. Excited that I would soon be feeling another man's cock playing inside of me, and excited that I would be doing that under the watchful eye (and approval) of my faithful husband.

My hubby began to rub his hard cock against my opening. "MMM," he said. "I bet you can't wait until Bob puts his cock inside of you." He must have been reading my mind.

"Oh yeah, I'm so ready for him to fuck me," I said, while rubbing against my husband. I kissed my husband deeply, but gently pushed him away before he could push his cock into me. "No. Not now. There will be time for you to do that later," I said, while kissing him. "But tonight Bob gets to have me first. You can have a turn with my pussy after Bob has done his business."

I could see the look of excitement in his eyes to be hearing that from his wife. I'm sure he could hear the excitement in my voice. We went to dinner and had a nice quiet meal, then returned to our hotel about 20 minute before Bob was scheduled to arrive.

My hubby started to get a little frisky, and began to kiss and lightly caress my breasts. But I stopped him: "Not now," I said, removing his hands. "These are for Bob first."

"Are you sure about that?" he asked. "Absolutely," I replied. "Tonight my tits, mouth, and pussy are Bob's. You can have them back only after he leaves." I realized that I was saying that in part because it got my husband excited. But in part I was saying it because it was how I felt.

I really wanted Bob to have me first, and I loved the sense of power I was feeling over my soon-to-be cuckolded (again) husband.

"Then what should I do until then?" he asked. "Make drinks for all of us," I suggested, "and be a good, polite host. Then sit in that chair and watch like a good hubby while Bob fucks me." I guess I was feeling bolder and more in control. "Bob will fuck me good. Then, if you do your job well, I'll let you eat my used pussy and put your cock in me later," I told him.

Bob arrived a few minutes later and we all had a cocktail, hubby sitting in a comfortable chair, and Bob and me relaxing on the bed. We talked a bit about politics and sports, and caught up on what we had all been doing in the four months since Bob had last fucked me.

I played a little "footsie" with Bob, but other than that it was a relaxed time... just three friends getting together... except that I knew I was going to fuck the brains out of one of these friends while the other watched.

Things started heating up. Soon Bob and I started caressing each other, and then we began slowly kissing. My hubby continued being the good host, producing a box of condoms for our use. Bob was a good guest, thanking him, and added that he had brought some too... "in case."

He slowly removed my top and started sucking on the nipples I had recently denied my husband. It felt so good to finally feel Bob's mouth on them. "MMM," I began to moan, as I pushed my breasts deep into my lover's mouth. I was so turned-on it was amazing.

My dear hubby sat there watching with his mouth agape. I could tell he was feeling it all... slight jealousy, substantial excitement, and absolute dedication to me... his hot wife. I knew it would be hard for him to wait until Bob left, when he could show his appreciation to his hot wife, who was so willingly and passionately cuckolding him.

When Bob pulled away, my breasts were heaving with excitement. My nipples were standing out like giant eraser tips. Bob rolled one of my nipples between his fingers. It felt like an electric circuit that was directly attached to my pussy, which was purring with need and anticipation.

Bob began to undo my slacks. I love being undressed by another man, and I began to moan with desire. In one quick motion he had my pants and panties off, and he was rubbing my absolutely soaked pussy, causing it to make wet sucking noises. This hot wife wanted it bad!

"Ohh," I moaned, as he began to kiss his way down my body and lick and rub my pussy. I gently ran my fingers through his hair as he took possession of my pussy with his mouth. And I do mean possession. No one has ever eaten my pussy with the passion and enthusiasm that Bob has. He has to be one of the best pussy eaters in the world.

"That feels so great," I moaned. Bob quickened the pace, and I wrapped my legs around his shoulder while he ate me with gusto. He was also moaning and telling me, "God, you taste delicious." That did the trick. I had an intense orgasm in his mouth, twisting and turning and moaning while my whole body shook in release.

Bob then slowly kissed his way up my body and kissed me deeply on my mouth. He slowly caressed me as I continued to twitch in pleasure. When I finally came down from my high, I began kissing and caressing him back.

"Wow Bob," I said, "now I remember how well you do that. God, that was great." Bob smiled, started kissing down my body again, and started eating my pussy one more time. It felt great! I leaned back and enjoyed it for a few minutes, but then stopped him and said, "No, as great as that is, it's not what I want right now. I want your cock inside of me."

Bob didn't have to be told twice. He removed the rest of his clothes, and rolled one of the condoms onto his cock. He positioned himself between my legs and pushed all the way into me. It wasn't hard to do. I was soaked.

"Ohh..." I moaned, as I felt Bob's cock fill me. I wrapped my legs around him and fucked him right back, causing him to gasp. "Oh you feel so good," he moaned, while picking up his pace.

I was beyond ecstasy, humping against the cock that was sliding in and out of me, clawing at the sheets while crying out in intense passion. "Oh God, oh yeah," I cried out as a second orgasm began to build inside me. I thought I was going to explode. Every nerve in my body seemed to be firing.

We both started fucking frantically, until Bob stiffened and I went over the top. "Oh yessss!" I screamed, as Bob and I had mutual orgasms. He cried out and collapsed on top of me. Bob stayed on top of me, his cock still buried deep inside, and we kissed passionately in the after pleasure. It was amazing.

Eventually Bob was ready to go. He and I kissed a few more times, and he took his leave. I was lying naked and sprawled out on the bed with a contented grin on my face. Yes, I sure was content... but I was also ready to be worshipped.

I looked at my hubby, smiled, and said, "That was amazing, even better than the last time." He quickly removed his clothes and started kissing my thighs... the thighs I had just wrapped so tightly around Bob.

I felt a little self-satisfied, so I looked down at my hubby and said, "So my cuck, you love seeing me like this don't you... all content and flushed after another man has fucked me?"

"You know it my wifey," he said. "May I have the pleasure of tasting your freshly fucked pussy?" "Absolutely," I replied... I demand it." He began to eat my soaked pussy, licking my clit, and shoving his tongue deep inside my hole. "Mmm," I said, "Can you taste how wet Bob made me? Do you like tasting the sex your wife just had?" He just grunted an affirmative. "Good, there will be lots of opportunities to do that. Maybe someday I'll even reward you with a creampie. But now I want you to fuck me."

He slid up my body and put his already-hard cock into my freshly used pussy. His familiar cock felt great. I felt so slutty and wanton. "MMM... you like having seconds don't you? You like when I'm a slut for other men," I said, as I felt another orgasm building.

My hubby really knows how to fuck, and he didn't disappoint that time. He gave me two more orgasms before he shot a huge load deep inside of me. Needless to say, I slept like a baby... a naughty, wanton baby who fucks, and will continue to fuck men that her faithful husband brings to her.

### My Cuckold Hubby Lets Me Screw Whomever I Want

Phew... It was mid-day, and I had just gotten up after having a night to remember.

I caught Pete and Alex (two young lads on holiday staying in an apartment across from our place) peeking from across the way again. I gave them an eyeful as I got ready to go out again with my hubby.

That time I gave them the full treatment. I was stark naked (apart from stockings and heels) while I did my hair and makeup... and applying body lotion all over. I put my intimate (pierced) jewelry in place, and then put on a bright yellow button-through silk dress over the top.

I didn't have any eye contact with the boys! I let them think I did not know they were watching.

But when my hubby and I left, Pete and Alex tagged along to the nightclub where we were meeting a guy we know... a guy who I occasionally use as a turn-on.

One thing led to plenty as I undid a few buttons here... and a few buttons there. Pete and Alex danced with me all night. Their hands were wandering, and their cocks were grinding against my groin. They were good boys, and did as I asked. I told them to go into the men's room and remove their underpants. They did. They gave them to me and I gave them to my husband for our collection.

We eventually asked the third guy to leave, and took Pete and Alex back to our place where I surrounded their cocks with my red lips for a while. They tried to jump me for a quick "Wham bam thank you mam," but I wasn't having that!

I made them sit on separate dining chairs while I bobbed from one to the other, sitting on their laps, sinking them into me, and squeezing them with my vaginal muscles. All those pelvic floor exercises really do pay off girls. I took a while before I squeezed every last drop out of the pair of them, and sent them home.

My dress and stockings were pretty much stuck to me when my hubby took over and gave me orgasm after orgasm with his tongue, before he took me hard from behind on the balcony... as Pete and Alex looked on from their balcony.

It was 5.30 AM before we eventually got to bed, and 11 AM before I woke up and looked down on the saturated sheets on our bed.

I have rarely taken so much cum in such a short space of time. Life is good. I loved it. The boys loved it. And my husband loved it.

Here's to my next experience!

### With Her Mom's Guidance & Hubby's Approval

### This Wife Took a Lover, Made Hubby a Cuckold

I wrote the following letter to my husband two years ago. I was recently looking through the discrete and securely partitioned portion of my laptop computer, and found the letter, and I thought I would share it with you, Joan. I wrote it just after spending a weekend with my first lover.

But first, some background on me/us.

My husband and I had been married four years, and we lived a thousand miles from the city where my mother lives. She called to tell me she was going to visit our city for a week. When I invited her to stay with us she said, "No, I don't want to impose on your privacy. Besides, I enjoy my own privacy, and look forward to staying in that elegant old hotel in your city." I knew she could afford it. Dad left her well off.

The evening she arrived she called and invited me to join her the next day at her luxurious hotel. She said we could swim in their large outdoor pool, and spend several hours just enjoying girl talk. I had taken time off from work and thought it sounded like a great way to spend some time with my mom.

The next morning I took my swim suit with me when I went to her hotel, but it had turned out to be an overcast day and a bit chilly for outdoor swimming. When I got there I found that she had already gone out and gotten a couple bottles of wine and some snacks for us. She said, "In view of the weather, let's skip the swimming and just spend the time talking, snacking, sipping wine, and enjoying each other. Later I can call room service to bring us some lunch."

Her deck was somewhat sheltered, so she suggested we sit out there where she could smoke as we talked. Mom still likes her cigarettes! We talked about many things, including what she had been doing since dad died two years earlier (at age 55 from a massive heart attack). After talking about dad there was a few minutes of silence between us. Mom took a few leisurely puffs on her cigarette. Then, out of the blue, mom looked over at me and said, "You know honey, I had a lot of affairs while I was married to your father."

It took a few minutes for me to absorb her revelation. Then I told her I had not known that, and had always thought she and dad were deeply in love.

She quickly assured me that she had loved dad... very much. Then she went on to tell me that their sex life was even "pretty good", but that she needed a lot more sexual fulfillment than she got at home. Then she looked at me and asked, "By the way, how's your sex life honey?" I told her it was "good". She said, "But I mean... is it as fulfilling as you wish it was?"

I had to think a bit before answering. I had had a half dozen lovers before marrying, so I had something to compare with. I opened up and told my mother that my hubby and I typically engaged in some manual and oral foreplay before actual intercourse (the key word there being "some"), and that I occasionally had enjoyable climaxes before my husband had his... but otherwise as soon as he climaxed he almost always rolled over and went to sleep, and often leaving me wanting more.

She smiled and said "that's how it was with your dad." She went on to tell me that is why she decided to take on occasional discrete lovers. She told me that "thank God", dad never learned about her affairs. We toasted each other with a glass of wine before she went on.

Soon mom was regaling me with details of the many sexual pleasures she enjoyed with her various lovers. Then she stopped and said, "You know, I wish I hadn't had to keep the details of my sexual exploits from your dad. Thinking back on it I think your dad would have understood my need for more sexual fulfillment... and he may have become a better lover if I would have been open with him about my dalliances. He knew I loved him dearly, and only him. But by the time I considered telling him, I thought that my deceptions had gone on too long."

We ordered room service and had a great lunch before she went on with stories about some of her lovers, most of them married as she was. Then she said, "You know, I understand that these days many husbands are open to having their wife occasionally have sex with other men... if they talk about it in advance. As I said earlier, I wish I had leveled with your dad early in our marriage about my need for more fulfillment. I think that if I had, and he was open to my having no-strings-attached sex with other men... I never would have had any affairs. That would have been so much easier, and I wouldn't have had to tell so many little white lies along the way."

Other than her confiding that she hoped to meet some new one-night-stand guys during her stay at the hotel... our conversation moved on to other non-sexual topics.

We spent a few other times together that week. I was able to ask her about some of her lovers, and we both giggled a lot as she gave me unexpected intimate details. One night my husband joined us and the three of us had a wonderful dinner together. Obviously mom didn't bring up her past affairs that night, but she did allude to a "hot guy" she had been spending some time with at the hotel that week." My husband just grinned.

During the week after mom left, my hubby and I had some pillow talk during which I told him everything mom had told me. At first he was shocked at learning about my mom's past behavior. I even told him about her saying, "These days many husbands are open to having their wife occasionally have sex with other men... if they talk about it in advance." Then as I told him more he got so aroused that he treated me to multiple-orgasm-producing oral sex, followed by some hard pounding intercourse that gave me more orgasms before he finally climaxed strongly within me.

Several days later, during another pillow talk session, he told me he had been thinking about the fact that I am capable of multiple and extended orgasms, while his horniness clearly drops off after cumming just once. He said that he concluded that my potential for sexual fulfillment was probably a lot like my mom's. "So after much thought," he announced. "with my permission... and so you never need to consider having hidden affairs... I think you should occasionally enjoy a lover!"

Now keep in mind that he and I had never even talked about either of us... or both of us together... having any outside sex partners, or swinging, or anything like that. Yes, we had viewed some pornographic videos together a few times, and they had aroused both of us... but neither of us had suggested that we do any of the things we saw.

At first I resisted the idea. Then, as I considered what my mom had told me, and thought about what I began to see as my hubby's encouragement. I decided that maybe I should look for and experiment with an outside lover. The idea of playing with a new and different sex partner began to sound like fun, and it would likely give me an opportunity for more sexual fulfillment.

A few days later I told my hubby I had decided to give it a try... if he was still sure he wanted me to. That was before I even started looking for a prospective lover. To my surprise, my hubby was not only supportive, he was elated. A few days later I found myself discretely flirting with a married guy who periodically visited our office.

With my flirtatious encouragement, it did not take long before the guy invited me to meet him for a drink at a local bar (that just happened to be located in a national chain motel. More mutual flirting over our drinks led to him getting a room for us. That proved to be an evening of highly enjoyable sex.

When I got home later that night I hesitantly told my hubby all about my "date" and what I did with the guy. I couldn't believe how hot that made him. Again we had great sex. That hot sex continued each night over the next several days, as he had me re-tell my report. I found that I really loved how my husband was responding to my first venture into other guy sex. My husband began calling me his "hot wife" as we made love.

That was the start of me cuckolding my husband and expanding my sexual horizons. The following situation took place a few weeks later when my new lover invited me to join him for the weekend in another city.

This is the letter I send via e-mail to my husband on Sunday morning...

just before driving home:

When I left the house Friday afternoon to meet my lover in another town, I was nervous and excited. I think you, dear hubby, were more aroused and excited than me.

As we talked about my plans for the weekend you started moaning. You were masturbating while talking to me. That got me aroused. Remember, I masturbated too, and had a great orgasm before cleaning up and leaving on my new adventure.

I met my lover at the Hilton. You still don't know him, but I was literally dripping as we were going to the room we were going to share for the weekend. As we were in the elevator he said he told his wife that he was going fishing with some old high school buddies. As he kissed me passionately, he also said he had made love to her just before he left. With his tongue exploring my mouth, he embraced me. He whispered that he was going to do things to me that I have never experienced before.

When we entered our room he led me by my hand to the bed. I was more than ready for him to make love to me... right then. I felt his hands caressing my breasts. My nipples grew hard against his fingers as he slowly traced them. With his crotch slowly rubbing against my thigh, I ran my hand under his shirt and played with his nipples.

Moaning deeply, I felt an unbelievable feeling in my stomach... realizing I was going to make love for two nights and the day in between with a man other than you... to sleep with him, and to wake up with him beside me. Scary, and erotic. But I wanted it so bad. I wanted to do things and to experiment, with you not there to judge what I do

As he slowly raised my blouse he slipped his hand beneath my bra and cupped my breast, I started cumming. My eyes closed as it happened. I really needed him. I wanted him to slide deep into me and feel him spasm as I made him cum. I quickly slid my hand into his pants. I wanted to feel him. He was so very hard. Harder then I remembered from our first time.

He removed my panties, and I could smell sexual fragrance emanating from me. As I helped him remove his jeans, I could not help but stare at his erection beneath his boxers. When I pulled them down his penis brushed my hand. I wrapped my hand around it. Moving down, I slid him into my mouth. As I tasted him I realized I could taste his wife. I could smell her. That really made me moan, having her juices in my mouth and knowing I was going to have her juices in my pussy also.

As we pulled apart he pushed my knees up. I knew he was going in deep. Bringing his penis to my vagina, he was once again going to open me wide. His penis touched me, and I started moaning, trying not to cum too quickly. Slowly he slid into me. I could feel myself stretching. He moaned something about me being "so tight". I felt all of him.

He moved slowly at first. I was so wet that I could hear him sliding in and out of me. I started shaking and moaning. I enjoyed a series of orgasms while he played within me. Then he started going in as deep as he could, finally stopping as he emptied his cum deep inside me. It was so arousing knowing I was making him cum inside me. I wanted it, and truly needed to feel him within me. We broke apart and lay there. The situation was not as uncomfortable as I thought it might be. It was very intense. I had cum multiple times, and I knew our illicit liaison was not a mistake.

Being late in the afternoon, we ordered room service. As we waited, I called you I could tell you were breathless as I told you I had already had sex with my lover. After we ate I dozed off. I awoke and went to shower. As I was washing my hair, he opened the shower door. He moved behind me. I put my hands on the wall as he bent me over slightly. I felt the head of his penis against my anus. That scared me! Then he guided it between my spread legs and against my vagina.

He started running his penis back and forth along my swollen lips. I could not believe how my knees went weak as I started to orgasm again, and he wasn't even inside me yet. After I stopped quivering he pulled me back and plunged into me. He held my hips as he entered me. I felt like he was totally controlling me. It was wonderful. He was not that deep inside me, but it was exciting as the warm water was simultaneously beating down on us. He didn't cum that time. I think he was holding back for later.

With that, I needed a break. I dressed in a T-shirt and went to bed next to my new lover. Soon our room service dinner arrived and we talked and joked as we ate. You called my cell phone and I promised you that later we would let you listen in on our sex play (I had already told my lover that you had requested that). I sensed that you were ecstatic to hear my promise. After dinner we fell asleep, me cuddled in his arms.

I awoke an hour or so later and realized where I was and what had taken place. Lying there thinking about it I become unbelievably aroused. My lover was still asleep, his head in my lap. I dialed you and heard you answer. I did not say a word as I sat the phone down on the table next to the bed.

I started sucking on my lovers' nipples as I fondled his penis. With it growing in my hand I moved down and swallowed as much of him as possible. He moaned and woke as I bobbed up and down on his penis. I am sure you heard him express his appreciation for what I was doing. I could taste his pre-cum. I knew you could hear my slurping, and his appreciative moans and words prodding me to continue. I was once again dripping wet. It was actually running down my thighs.

He pulled my hips around and slid his tongue into me... causing me to moan. With two fingers inside me, he licked my clit. I started bucking as I came on his face. It was soooo good. I knew you could hear me moan and express my pleasure to my lover.

I still had his penis in my mouth. I felt him tense. He started to fill my mouth with long streams of cum. Until then I had only tasted his pre-cum. That was the real deal. The first time we were together he asked if I ever swallow. Now he knows, and I can report to you that I do. It was salty and thick... very, very arousing.

He continued licking me as he came. Then he moved his tongue to my anus. I have never felt anything like that. That's something you have ever done to me. I loved it as he explored me. I groaned and told him how I liked his tongue exploring my behind (you probably heard). He then tried to slip a finger into my anus, but I just wasn't ready for that.

By then he had regained his erection. He rolled me onto my tummy and lifted me onto my knees as he said, "Let me do you doggy-style." Do you remember hearing that? Soon his penis was again buried deep in my pussy, and he was pumping me hard. I am sure you heard my moans of enjoyment and his comments about how good my pussy felt as we both reached near simultaneous orgasms. That felt so extra good that time.

Exhausted, we rolled apart and soon went to sleep again. I guess I forgot you were still on the phone. Sorry about that.

As I awoke the next morning I realized I had not hung up. I called you and woke you. Thank goodness you were not upset for being left dangling on the phone when I fell asleep. With my lover still asleep, I talked to you. You had so many questions. Eventually I excused myself, and went to take a shower. When I came out I was somewhat embarrassed. He was on the phone talking with his wife, and was telling her about his fishing trip.

I lay on the bed and started moving my hands to his crotch. As I played, he was getting an erection. It was such a turn-on to be doing that with him on the phone talking to his wife. He quickly hung-up and pulled me up to him. As he kissed me deeply, I told him I needed him inside me again. Onto my knees I went. As he pushed the head of his penis into me, I again moaned. I could feel it stretching me again.

He began thrusting deeply into me. It felt like he was turning my vaginal lips inside out each time he pulled back. I had an orgasm that literally took my breath away for a moment. He stopped and whispered that he wanted to go inside me anally. Again, that's something you and I have never done, but I told him I was willing to try. He went to his bag and took out something for lubrication. With me still on my knees he started rubbing my rear end.

To my surprise, it actually felt good as he slowly inserted one finger, and then worked in a second. As he did that he was rubbing my clitoris with his other hand. After I was relaxed, he put the head of his penis at my opening. He slowly began to enter me. At first I felt like he was tearing me wide open, and yet it was rousingly sexy.

After what seemed like an hour, he was all the way inside me. Slowly, with small gentle strokes, he started to go in and out. I started fingering myself as he picked up the pace. Soon I was cumming in a prolonged series of orgasms as he told me how tight I was. He told me that he was going to fill me "back there". I could feel him moving my insides with each stroke. He grabbed my hips, pulled himself hard into me, and started shooting his cum into me. I have to admit... it was really awesome.

It was a wonderful night... followed by more sex play during the day Saturday, followed by another very satisfying night. But I am going to be happy to be back in your arms, in our bed tonight.

My new intimate friend had to leave early on Sunday morning, so I showered, had breakfast alone, and took advantage of the time to use my laptop to compose and send the above e-letter to my hubby. When I got home my dear hubby was waiting for me... hotter than a pistol. He immediately took me to bed. He was harder that I remember him ever being, but he didn't put himself in me right away. Instead he showered me with tender caresses and kisses, before moving down and treating me to his best-ever oral sex.

He made sure that I had two solid climaxes before he finally entered me. When he did, he drove both of us through intense orgasms. What a reward for having become my hubby's "hot wife"!

Like I said, that was two years ago. I met that new intimate friend for more sex play on a few other occasions. Then I decided I wanted to try a new guy. Notice that I no longer refer my sexual playmates as "lovers". They aren't really lovers. My husband is my only lover. The others are intimate guy friends with whom I share mutually satisfying sex play.

During these past two years I have experienced a total of eight guys... always bringing home full reports for my loving husband. Fortunately I followed my mom's advice and talked with my hubby about needing more sexual fulfillment. To my happy surprise my hubby encouraged me to experience new sex play partners. Having done so, I have absolutely no need or desire to have any secretive affairs. On that count I am ahead of my mom. And, my hubby loves having me cuckold him.

From Shirley

### An E-Mail to Her Hubby...

### After Her 'Bull' Serviced Her

My 29-year-old wife and I have been together for four years. We have had straight and bi-threesomes for almost all of that time. Six months into our relationship we started `bull and cuck' role playing. Now I would say that I'm officially a cuck... her cuck.

She now has two full time `Bulls'. Recently, the evening after the afternoon that her two-year-on-going bull came over to have sex with her, I asked her to send me a story or an e-mail expressing her feeling about our chosen lifestyle.

Here is the e-mail she sent me:

Where we are going? I think I am finally comfortable with the role we've been hinting around at for months. I am ready to treat you like the cuck you want to be, though I still don't like that word.

I am ready to be serviced by men without you present, though I need to be fully trusting of the man in the bed. I loved having you out of the house while Mel was here today. It made the sex so much more intense, and I think I was a better fuck, because I wasn't performing for you. I was just into the moment.

When it is just you and me together, sex with you is so good because there is so much mentally between us. We can get so turned-on just talking and planning for my next buddy-fuck that we both get intensely horny. It is so good because you are so kinky, and you push me to be kinkier than I was before, or that I would admit to wanting. I cum so much with you because I am fully turned-on, and also because our mutual trust level is so high.

I love fucking at least a little every day, like we usually do. I love your dirty mind and the things you ask me about regarding my sex play with other guys, and how you talk to me about what you want, and what other men want from me.

I love the way you tease me with just the head of your cock as I tell you about my most recent sex play with another man, pushing it just barely into my pussy, and then pulling away. I love when you finally let me have all of your cock, and how worked up you have me at that point. I love the variety we have when fucking... sometimes hard, sometimes sensual, sometimes kinky, sometimes spanking.

You touch me like no one else does, and your mouth tastes better than anyone else. I love your tongue on my pussy, and on my clit. I love you fucking me with that dildo you love so much. I love feeling your body on top of me. Sex with you is better than with anyone... but we both know it isn't enough for me.

You know I need a hard, rough, long fuck, and you give that to me by encouraging me to play with other men. Thank you honey.

### Enjoying My First Lover as My Hubby Watched

Our fantasies and planning has finally paid off. During sex, my husband had often whispered in my ear how much he would really love to watch me getting fucked by another guy. His ideas began to stir my own fantasies, and we began to plan how we could make it happen.

By the way, I am 28 and my husband is 30. We have been married for three years now. My husband assured me that he would not be jealous if I let another guy have sex with me, and I concluded that he was quite serious. After months of searching and scouting the local bars, my husband and I found the right guy.

The guy was just perfect... very attractive, with a great physique, and about our age. My husband was actually the one to notice him. He told me that he had noticed a guy who just couldn't take his eyes off of me. I stole curious glances, and made eye contact with the guy a few times. After working up the nerve, I approached the guy and asked if he'd like to have a drink with me.

We started talking. Eventually I explained to him, that though I'm married, I was looking to have a good time with him, as long as my husband could watch. It didn't take much convincing. The three of us soon left the bar and went to his place.

After some talking and a little bit of awkwardness, things got underway. My husband had found himself a comfortable chair across the room, and just sat back and quietly watched. Our new friend was sitting down. I walked up to him and straddled him. I could see in his eyes that he wanted me, and that instantly made me wet. My husband was about to enjoy an amazing show... a show my husband and I had long fantasized about.

The guy put his hands on my hips and slid them down until he found the end of my skirt. In no time, his hands were up under my skirt, feeling my thighs and butt. I felt his cock get harder through his pants, and I started to slowly grind on him. His grip on my butt got firmer. He pulled me closer to him and began kissing me.

He continued to kiss me as he unbuttoned my shirt and started groping my breasts. I pulled his shirt off and he began kissing and licking my nipples. I told him to bite them some, and he gladly obliged.

By then his cock was rock hard, and I wanted so badly to feel it. I reached down and undid his pants while he continued to suck and bite my nipples, and play with my butt. His cock felt so good in my hands... warm and hard. That sudden urge came over me. I slipped off his lap, pulled his pants down, and began to lick his cock... from the base to the tip.

I then slowly put him in my mouth and sucked. He groaned with pleasure. He grabbed a handful of my hair while I sucked and licked him. I couldn't take it anymore. I stood up, pulled my skirt and panties down, turned around, and slowly sat on our new friend's long, hard cock. It felt so good as it slid into me. He grabbed my hips and slammed me down on him.

I caught my husband's eyes as I screamed out with pleasure. He was grinning at me while playing with himself. The guy stood up, still inside of me. He turned around, bent me over the couch, and started to pound me hard. I could barely contain myself as he shoved himself deep inside me with each thrust. That was the first time in a long time that I had had a cock inside me other than my husband's. It felt different... good... really good!

"Harder!" I told him, and he started pounding me harder and faster. It felt amazing! I just stayed there, bent over, letting him have his way with me. Next thing I knew, he was thrusting deeper inside me, and he moaned with pleasure as he released a heavy load of cum. I felt the warm liquid coating my insides as he slowly thrust jerkily in and out of me.

He pulled out and told me to get on the bed and roll onto my back. He was still hard! He spread my legs wide, and again stuck his cock into my wet, dripping pussy. He held my ankles as he moved slowly in and out of me, obviously savoring every sensation, as was I. He stared down at me, looking into my eyes with a look of complete satisfaction.

He licked his lips, dropped my legs, and moved closer to kiss my nipples. I wrapped my legs tightly around his waist, trying to pull him as far into me as I could. We enjoyed feeling each other, and got lost in the erotic passion.

I rolled him over and put myself on top, riding his cock. He reached around and began to play with my butt and my butt hole while I rode him hard and fast. The sensation of him moving in and out of me, and his fingers playing with my butt drove me close to cumming.

I turned around on him, reverse cowgirl, and let him take in the view while he played with my ass some more. Facing my husband, I mouthed the words, "I love you," as I bounced up and down on the new hard cock within me. He felt soooo good inside of me.

He spanked me a few times... hard, but not too hard. I turned back around on him and rode him hard. I felt an orgasm coming on, and started slamming myself onto him. I felt him cum again, and that sent me into an explosive orgasm.

I collapsed against his chest. That's when I felt that my husband had moved up behind me and was caressing my shoulders. He kissed my neck as our new friend played with my breasts. What a sensation, having a semi-hard cock still within my throbbing pussy as four hands caressed my body.

Hubby and I left a few minutes later, but only after our new friend gave me one more passionate kiss. We agreed that next time he would come to our place, and spend the night with us. I look forward to that.

When hubby and I got home that night I took a quick shower. While still in the shower, my husband came in with me. He soaped my entire body, working his way down with kisses along the way. When I rinsed off he grabbed a towel and tenderly dried me... before carrying me to bed.

We had really great sex that night. My hubby kept telling me over and over how hot it was to watch our new friend's cock plunging in and out of my pussy. He told me that when our new friend comes to spend the night with us, he wants to hold me in his arms, suck my breasts and neck with me as I am getting pounded. I like that idea.

As we talked, my husband used his fingers on my clit as his cock worked within me. Soon I had one more gigantic orgasm... just as my hubby spilled his load inside me.

What a night to remember! And, I think we are likely to have more such nights in the near future. I am one happy girl!

Beth

### One Woman's Perspective -

### Women Need More Than One Man -

I believe women's bodies are built to have sex with multiple partners. Men are built to drop their seed and leave. Just for the record, I am a 32-year-old married woman.

I read a study once that explained it very well, and it comes from thousands of years ago when we lived in little groups. Men enjoy porn much more than women because when they see others having sex, they instinctively know it is safe. You know, like there are no predators lurking to jump them when they are helplessly exposed having sex. That is why men come quickly, and as soon as they have an orgasm they are done and want to get up and leave. They lose all their sexual feelings.

Women, on the other hand, wait until the men are ready, depending on the men to judge when it is safe. We know that we need their seed, and wanting to be sure we get as much as we need, we remain sexually ready even after we orgasm, so many men from the tribe can deposit their sperm in us.

It was said in the article that primitive men knew when a woman was ready to conceive, so those women where the target of the men trying to plant their seeds. They didn't want to waste it on women who were not ready, so they lined up and took turns, instinctively hoping theirs would be the ones to fertilize our eggs.

So, that is why men like to "pull a train" on women. It is a primal thing, sharing a woman among friends, mixing all the sperm of the tribe into the woman. That way they all could claim fatherhood.

Of course the whole tribe raised the babies as their own, and of course the men with the strongest seeds passed on their blood lines. I can also assume that the longer penis deposited the seed deeper, and those had a better chance. I wonder if that trait carried on, and if it did, why are so many men "small"? I assume that there must have been a shortage of hung men back then, or maybe those guys where all small?!?

Anyway, I can't imagine having to only have sex with just one man.

Of course, we also need to know there is going to be someone around to protect and feed our babies, so we do cling to men for that reason. But knowing that a man will be there even though you are breeding with others is great. I doubt if I would be so willing to have sex with other men if I didn't have my husband who I am sure will be there for me.

My husband has no need of other women, and I would never allow him to be with them. His seed belongs to me, and I don't want him spreading it to some other woman who will require him to support her.

I am the center of the household, like all women. My body comforts, nurtures and feeds my babies from my breasts, and my vagina comforts my men. I am built for this, and I accept it. That is why I keep so many men around.

I laugh at women who can't keep a guy around. It is so easy once you have accepted your place, and know that men want a slut. So many women try to turn into mommies to their husbands, and once the guys stop thinking of you like a sex object and more like a mother, you can bet they are going to look for a "sex object."

That is in their nature, and most can't fight that primal urge. They don't even understand why they cheat. I know... it is because we women are often so determined to believe that if we are treated like sex objects, that is disrespect. BULLSHIT!

Some Background about Me (writer of the above piece)...

As early as when I was a young girl, I learned two important things about me, and about sex.

First, I learned that I genuinely enjoy (actually... need) feeding from guys' cocks. I love drinking their syrup!

Second, I learned that no one man was ever going to be "enough" for me. I am absolutely convinced that no woman should limit herself to just one sex partner or playmate.

My mom and I moved in with her boyfriend and his two sons when I was in my early teens. One of the boys was two years older than me, and one was my age. Both of them where very cute, and I really liked watching them around the house.

One day our parents left early to go to some party, and left me alone with them. I went to bed early and woke up having to use the bathroom. I walked down the hall past the youngest one's bedroom, and heard some strange noises coming from inside. I put my ear on the door to try to listen, thinking he was dreaming.

The door moved slightly (it never did close properly), and that scared me. I started to walk away, but the same noises continued. I thought I would peek in and watch him sleeping and dreaming.

I was careful, and opened the door just a little more, enough to see in. He was lying on the bed naked, stroking himself! I was shocked, and pulled back and hurried down the hall to the bathroom. It was very exciting to see, and I couldn't help but think about it. I had never seen a boy erect before, and wondered what it would be like to just watch him masturbate.

On my way back to my room I walked slowly past his room. The door was still a bit open, so I peeked in. He was still playing with himself, a bottle of lotion lying beside him on the bed. There was just enough light from the window for me to see everything.

I was fascinated. That thing looked so big. I wondered how a girl could ever let it inside of her. I was getting so turned-on that I let my hand go down, and I started caressing myself. I had masturbated before, but only when I was alone, and always thinking about guys at school. I had never done it standing up, and found it to be more difficult.

He didn't notice me, and I so wanted to see him orgasm. I had one girlfriend that was already sexually active. She had told me all about how guys shoot their stuff all over, and I wanted to see what that was like.

I was so intent on watching I didn't notice the other brother until the hall lit up with a flash! He had taken a Polaroid picture of me standing there peeking into his brother's bedroom, with my hand down my panties!

I was horrified. I didn't know what to say. I just stood there with my mouth open. I am sure I looked like a deer caught in someone's headlights! He looked at me and asked if I was enjoying the show. I still didn't speak. He told me that I should go in and get a closer look. I started walking to my room. He said, "Not so fast," unless I wanted that picture to get to my mom.

I started pleading and crying, but he just looked at me. Meanwhile the other brother came out and asked what was going on. They talked, and both started laughing and looking at the picture. I was completely humiliated. One of them took my hand and led me into the bedroom. I sat down on the bed.

I was so afraid of what they would do to me that I told them I was a virgin, and they really laughed. The youngest pulled down his boxers and exposed himself. It got hard very fast, and he started stoking it. He told me he needed help, and put my hand on it. I started stroking it. He said, "Not with your hand, use your mouth."

I had never done that before, but I was so scared they would show the pictures to mom that I put it in my mouth. I was pleasantly surprised to find that it tasted wonderful! I was amazed at how warm, soft but hard it was. I didn't know what I was doing, but he told me what he liked, and I went at it.

All of a sudden he tightened up and grabbed my head. Then he shot his juice into my mouth. I gagged a little and wanted to pull away, but he held my head, making me swallow it all. I loved the taste! He sat back, and I sat up, thinking I was through. It was then that I noticed the other brother filming the whole thing! I knew I was in trouble then! My mom would kill me if she saw that... and what if they showed it to other people at school?

He gave the camera to his brother and told me it was his turn. I just sat there as he pulled his pants down and exposed himself. He told me to get on my knees in front of him. I was too scared not to comply. I dropped down and put him in my mouth.

He was bigger than his brother, and I had a hard time wrapping my lips around it. My jaw was already getting sore, but I did what I was told. He tasted different, but the same in a way. I worked at it hard, wanting it to be over, but he took a long time before filling my mouth with his cum.

I went back to my room and cried myself to sleep. When I woke the next morning my mouth tasted funny, and before I woke fully I wondered why. Then it all came back to me. I rushed to the bathroom and brushed my teeth for a long time.

The boys where already gone, and I wondered what would happen next. I walked to my mom's room, wanting to admit what I had done, and to ask her for help. My mom and her boyfriend where on the bed, and she was under the sheets, obviously doing to him what I had done to his sons the previous night. I started to leave, but I heard him groan as he orgasmed. I knew what he was shooting into her mouth!

I went to my room and laid down. In a few minutes my mom came in and asked how my night was. I told her "OK," not ready to tell her what happened. She sat on the bed next to me and told me she knew I had seen what had just happened in her bedroom. I felt myself blush, and she smiled.

She said, "You have to understand, men need women to do that to them," and she started telling me all about it. We had talked about sex before, but never in the detail that she used that day. She ended by telling me, "When you are ready, you will start doing that for boys, and sooner or later you will learn to enjoy it." I so wanted to tell her I had done that for her boyfriend's two sons the prior night... but I didn't.

From then on, every time we where alone I took care of the boys. I did learn to love it, as a matter of fact... way too much! It got to where I was sucking them both at least twice a day, usually more. I found that when I was denied their semen, I became hungry for it, not thinking of anything else.

We moved out about a year later, as my mom and her boyfriend stopped getting along. I so missed feeding from the boys. I found a guy in our new apartment building that was much older than me. I started going to his place when his parents were gone. At first we just kissed, and then one day he pulled his pants down, and I couldn't help myself. I sucked him dry in about thirty seconds. His cock was so much thicker, and there was so much more of it!

I found myself going to his apartment every day, just to satisfy my craving. Then I met another guy at the park one day. He was nice, but all I could think about was how he would taste. It didn't take long before I was on my knees behind a bush sucking on him.

He was so much smaller than the others, and I didn't expect him to cum in the amount he did. I found out that day that a small size doesn't mean a small volume! I went back to the apartment and found my friend. His parents were home, but I so wanted to have more that I asked him to go out to the parking lot behind a dumpster.

I was working on him when a man came up and caught us. I just looked up at him. Just as I was about to pull my mouth away, my guy spewed. I went back to swallowing it. When I looked back up, the new guy was unzipping his pants. He walked over to me, grabbed my head and pulled it to his erection. Without a word I opened my mouth and let him in.

He pumped my face like he was masturbating, using my mouth instead of his hand. It was a wonderful feeling, being used by a stranger like that! He came so hard I thought he was going to pass out! He looked so drained as he leaned back on the dumpster. All of a sudden I felt so dirty. I was giving men blowjobs behind a dumpster just because I needed to feed from them.

I got up and went home. My mom met me at the door and asked me what I had on my breath. She just shook her head and went to her room. I vowed to make sure I kept something to wash my mouth out from then on.

As I got older my needs increased. I found myself in a relationship with a guy that I really liked. By then I had also learned to enjoy a cock pumping in my pussy. At first he loved the fact that I would suck him all the time, but soon I realized he just couldn't provide me with enough, no one man could.

Soon I started having affairs. At one time I had five men that I fed on and invited to screw me regularly. It became a lot of work keeping my boyfriend from knowing what I was doing.

I was finally fortunate enough to find a loving guy who totally accepted my need for multiple lovers. He and I developed a deep loving relationship while I continued to feed my need for sex with a variety of guys. My husband-to-be even helped set up situations where I could have sex with multiple guys. Often he watched and cheered me on.

We eventually got married, and my husband continues to accommodate my need/desire for multiple sexual playmates. I love it, and wonder why more women don't insist on the same lifestyle. In spite of my unusual sexual lifestyle, my husband loves me very much, and supports all phases of my life.

Sylvia

### Being Shared is Such Fun!

Joan... let me start by telling you I had some fun times with our friend Nathan, and I always told my husband everything that happened. Knowing that I was fucking Nathan turned my husband on like I had never seen him turned-on before. Sometimes Nathan screwed me at our place, with my husband there to watch and to join in the fun.

Then Nathan left on a business trip. He has now been gone for several months. I was getting real horny, and even my husband was eager to have me get fucked by some other guy. Little did I know that something new was about to happen.

I hadn't looked for anyone else, but I often dreamed at night about Nathan's big cock inside me. Of course I told my husband about my dreams, and he would tease me. He and I would be eating, and he would have me tell him how good Nathan's cock was. I was going crazy. I was almost to the point of picking up a stranger on my way home from work.

Joan... what I really want to tell you about is what happened last night. I came home from work yesterday, stripped as soon as I got in the house, and jumped in our hot tub. I didn't know my husband was already home. He had someone with him, a guy he worked with who was going through a divorce. My husband had invited him to stay with us a few days.

They came over to the hot tub and my husband said, "Babe, I would like you to meet Denny." There I was, naked, a guy I had never seen looking me over. All I could say was, "I am glad to meet you."

With that brief introduction out of the way, my husband started slipping out of his clothes, and he told Denny to join us. It was just like they had already talked about it. Denny was out of his clothes in a flash, and I couldn't take my eyes off his beautiful huge cock.

He got in on one side of me, and my husband got in on my other side. I knew right then that I was going to get a lot of attention that night. Soon my husband was rubbing the inside of my right leg. He told Denny, "Don't be bashful." It was not long before both of them were playing at the same spot. The bubbler was not on, so I could see Denny's cock under the water... getting rock hard, so I reached over and took it in my hand. It was so big I couldn't get my hand around it.

Then my husband told me to sit on edge of the hot tub. When I did, I opened my legs. Denny was soon eating me. He was very good at it! I lay back as he was licking my pussy and my ass. I was going crazy. Denny stood up, and my husband took hold of Denny's hard cock and rubbed it on my pussy. Then I watched my husband guide Denny's cock into me as I continued to watch between my legs.

Because of my several times with Nathan, I was able to take all of Denny's oversize cock. Denny was a little bigger and longer than Nathan, but I was still able to take it all... and it felt so good. After pumping me through two delicious orgasms, he filled me to overflowing with his hot cum. My husband was quickly between my legs, licking it up. After he had gotten it all, he sucked Denny's cock until it was hard again. (My husband loves to suck cocks almost as much as I do.)

We retired to our bedroom, and I got many fillings last night. It seems Denny hadn't been with a woman in over six months. I had Denny's cock in any place it could be put... my mouth, my pussy, my ass, and between my breasts.

My husband sucked his cock just about as many times as I did. Even with all that sex play, Denny fucked me in our driveway, bent over his car hood, this morning before he left for work (I'm glad we live in the country). I can't wait until they both get home this evening.

###

### About the Author

Author Joan Vegas believes most women don't enjoy the level of sexual fulfillment that their femininity offers. She believes a sensual woman needs to regularly have more than one sexual playmate in their life in order to tap into their true sexual potential.

She lives her beliefs by partnering with two long-term male "partners". The three of them have built a committed loving family relationship.

Joan believes women are often capable of twice the level of sexual fulfillment (in terms of intensity, duration and repetitiveness) than men. And, she says that to the extent that women enjoy their feminine potential, their men get to enjoy more satisfying sex too.

To share her beliefs, several years ago Joan started a web site, dispensing advice and counsel about the benefits of threesome play. Several of Joan's readers began to refer to her as "The Dear Abby of Threesome Sex".

Over the years literally hundreds of women, men and couples have sent Joan reports about their personal experiences with bringing others into their shared sex play. It is those letters on which her books are based.

### Check out Joan's other books...

Sample or purchase any of Joan's books by clicking on the link below the book name. All are based on letters from real people, received by Joan over the past few years.

Cuckold Series:

Cuckolds by Choice - 5 Husbands Tell Why

(Explains why being a Cuckold is not necessarily bad.... good even!)

<https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/300945>

Cuckolds by Choice - For the Wife's Expanded Pleasure

<https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/301229>

Cuckold by Choice - So Their Wives Can Experience Black Lovers

<https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/301922>

Wives of Cuckolds Tell All

<https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/302001>

Other related Joan Vegas books:

Doubling Her Pleasure

This book is a compendium of information and personal reports by folks who have learned that when "she" gets extra pleasure "he" does too. It includes the equivalent of nearly 100 pages of single-space typewritten content.

A Very Memorable Weekend

Faithful Non-Monogamy - A Happy Wife's Story

Our Experiences with Fantasy Fulfillment

I Watched My Wife with a Younger Lover

The Agreement

It Started in Aruba

Discovering the Other Me

He Was Chosen To Be Misty's Extra Lover

My Wife Deserves More So I Gave Her More... By Sharing Her

Find them at: https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/JoanVegas

