 
Wolf's Revenge

By Beth Hoyer

Copyright Beth Hoyer 2012

Published at Smashwords

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may be or given away to other people. If you would like to share this eBook with another person, please download an additional copy for each recipient. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Chapter One

One morning in as the sun shined on a forest with a violet forlorn house overlooking it in Port Monaco, Connecticut. Inside on the second floor, a shade opened revealing a man with long black hair, tan brown skin and a muscular physique. Luke Morgan in his twenty four years stood watching the forest from his room on the second floor of the house. His room was consisted of brown furniture out of wood, a dresser and a bed with a closet with no doors. The closet had an array of clothing on the hangers and a dresser in the closet. The walls of the room were painted a tan brown. The closet was covered by a design of a wolf on a blanket. On the bed was a woven colorful rug. Sighing Luke pulled on a black sweat pants, and a v-neck white t-shirt and over that a black sweat shirt. He pulled his long hair back in a braid of his ancestry. He left his room with the number two on the door. The wall paper was peeling and one peeled away from the wall on his way. Grumbling Luke grabbed it and gave a yank. It came apart from the wall. On the stairs was a mess of wallpaper that Luke kicked as he walked down the stairs to as he passed by the library loft to the huge living room with a small black and white TV. The room had a fireplace and engulfed part of the house. In the blue kitchen, his twin brother younger by minutes, Mark Morgan with short black hair that was a little spiked was there drinking a protein drink and reading the newspaper dated May 1977. He was wearing a black tie and a blue suit with a white shirt under it.

"Morning Mark, What are you doing up this early?" asked Luke.

Mark looked up and spoke "Morning Luke I have some business appointment with clients today." Luke said "oh",

Then he paused and asked "Are you doing any thing today?"

Mark answered "No besides clients, why?"

Luke shrugged and said "I was hoping we could spent sometime with our girl friends and exchange them"'

Luke meant Serena Shaw he met while working out at the gym a few weeks ago. Luke remembered their meeting. He was on a weight machine when a woman wearing a sleeveless leotard in black with a cleavage and seemly fake blonde hair pulled back in a ponytail.

She sauntered up to him saying "Nice muscles"

Luke stared at her and spoke "Thanks."

She pulled out a card from her cleavage and handed it to him. On it were a nude picture of the woman and the words

Serena Shaw

Model

Luke sighed as she spoke "Pleasant hearing from you World champion Luke Morgan"

Then she walked away. Luke looked on the back and could see her phone number. He groaned remembering some photographer took their picture. He recalled seeing photos of him and this Serena together as boyfriend and girlfriend when in reality it was a set up of Serena and a look alike. As for Mark, Luke recalled his brother telling him how he met Ariana Nicholas from one of his clients' parties he went to a few weeks ago.

Mark told him "I went to a party for the Modeling agency President Joanna Briny's house with all those models there. They were doing acts that you only see in nasty sex magazines when a woman with a body builder's like arms came up to me. She was deaf from her monotone accent and the way she talked. She was wearing a purple dress with cleavage. She pulled out a card from her cleavage that said Ariana Nicholas, Model. With a nude picture of her and then she proceeded to tell everyone in the room that we were an item. I've seen pictures of me with her that seemed faked and set up with a look alike."

Both men groaned. Mark thought for a minute and spoke "Maybe, but I'm busy,"

Luke rolled his eyes and told him, "Serena complains we been spending no time together. She claimed that I'm neglecting her."

Mark stared at his twin and said "Crazy Ariana has been asking me when we could spent sometime together too"

Luke went to the refrigerator and got his protein drink and said "Maybe we'll spend sometime together in the afternoon, you can bring Ariana. I'll bring Serena. And we can exchange them" while looking at Mark.

Mark sighed and spoke "That sounds good."

Both brothers sat at the table drinking their breakfast in silence.

Mark let the kitchen went through the hallway to the living room and went out the front door with a bang. Luke went to the TV room, got his bag and left the same way Mark left. He locked the door and went to his car and drove to the gym he owned.

The rest of the morning went slowly as Mark sat in his office bored with nothing to do, in silence.

Then it was shattered by a woman's high heels thumping on the styled rug over the floor of the linoleum floor followed by his secretary Annette protesting "No you can't come in here. Mr. Morgan is busy."

Mark looked up and waved Annette away. He looked at the woman who was a long blond hair that seemed fake with blue eyes and a body with curves in her white skirt and a trim fitting top that showed cleavage she was wearing. Mark felt himself getting hard and he took a drink of water nearby him and looked at her as she angrily threw down papers on his desk and glared at him.

Mark stared shocked then said "What can I do for you, Miss uhf-"

She interrupted him by saying "Serena Shaw! I demand to know why the Vanders man magazine canceled my photo shoot abruptly!"

She was practically yelling in his face. "I was supposed to do a photo shoot for the Vanders man magazine and they cancelled, jerk!"

Mark frowned and wondered why his brother didn't see Serena attractive. Any man would see her attractive and worthy in bed.

He sat and waited for her to calm down then he said "Calm down Miss Shaw I'll get on the matter right away."

She glared and said rudely "Fine!"

She watched him as he made calls on his phone, she stared at him.

Reaching the Vanders' Representative he spoke "I have Serena Shaw in my office demanding to know why her photo shoot with the Vanders man magazine was cancelled."

He heard the Vanders representative Anna speaking "Some things in her resume weren't truthful with her doctor's physical. It seemed that she neglected to mention something like breast implants and fake hair."

Mark began to notice she was staring at him. He looked up as she looked away.

Mark spoke "Oh anything else?"

He heard Anna's reply.

Finally he hang up and spoke "Miss Serena Shaw, it seems the Vanders have canceled your photo shoot due to things not checking out on your resume and your doctor's physical. As a result they have replaced you with a woman named Ariana Nicholas."

Serena stared and shouted "What!"

Then she paced in his office grumbling out loud "I ought to sue them for that bit."

She stormed away and he could hear her outside his office yelling at his secretary, demanding a phone call and a lawyer.

Luke's day was different from Mark's day. Luke entered the gym he owned from his winnings as a former World boxing Champion. He saw Xavier Jorgas who smiled that smile which made Luke groan for Xavier was forever trying to set up dates with Luke and a woman. Xavier pointed to a woman with cleavage and bodybuilder like arms who was wearing purple bike pants and a purple sports top. Her arm muscles bulged as her chest heaved from pulling up two large sized dumbbells in both hands. Luke went toward the men's locker room to his office where he changed in a gray tank top shirt and black bike shorts. Then he went out to stretch his limbering himself. Then he picked up dumbbells and was pulling them up and down with his arms. While he was doing that he noticed the girl was doing tumbling poses on the mats in the back of the gym in front of the mirrors. Twice he caught her staring at him through the mirrors and her giggling.

Luke satisfied that he had enough walked over towards the girl with his towel in hand; he spoke "Hello."

Startled she looked up and said "What?" in a monotone voice which Luke recognized that she was deaf.

Luke repeated what he said again.

The girl introduced herself, "I'm Ariana Nicholas and I'm deaf."

Luke felt himself getting hard from looking at her and he wondered why his brother Mark didn't see her attractive at all.

Luke said "I'm Luke Morgan."

She stared and said "Is boring Mark Morgan a relative of you?"

And added "Mark Morgan was my boyfriend but he's not handsome compared to you"

Luke smiled and said "Mark Morgan is my twin brother."

"Oh" she smiled and said "Sorry I called your brother boring"

Luke asked "That's okay. Want help with some weights?"

Ariana replied "Yeah, I could use the help."

Luke enjoyed the fun of helping Ariana with weightlifting. He noticed that her workout clothes hugged her womanly curves.

Her hair brunette hair was put in a pony tail. He helped her with some weights till it was lunch time then she kissed him on the cheek and touched him thru the shorts, where no woman had touched him before with a squeeze then she went to the woman's locker room and came out wearing jeans and a T-shirt. She waved bye and left the gym. Luke stood where he was with a towel in his hand and heard Xavier's chuckling laugh. He shot him a glare and went to the showers to cool off and clear his mind.

Chapter two

At home after an eight hour day's work at the Briny modeling agency, Mark changed out of his suit into a pair of shorts and a T-shirt in his bedroom numbered three, which was upstairs on the second floor with the other numbered bedrooms. A car came in the driveway in it was a grumbling Luke and Serena Shaw.

She walked in and saw Mark and said rudely "So it's you at the office this morning."

Mark stared and said "So?"

His question never got an answer when Luke came in.

He looked around and asked Mark "Where's Ariana Nicholas?"

Serena stared and looked at Mark and yelled "What! Ariana Nicholas is your girlfriend! I ought to slap you, jerk!"

As a blue car came in the drive way Ariana Nicholas came out and slammed the passenger car door shut and went inside to the TV room as the car went away.

A furious Serena saw her and yelled "You Bitch! How dare you take away my photo job!"

Ariana shocked said nothing ran upstairs with a look Luke recognized as crying.

Mark glared and said "Damn you Serena! You hurt her feelings! She's deaf! Serena!!"

Serena said "Deaf? Mark we're going to have to talk alone!!"

And she headed toward the dining room, with Mark trailing her. Luke rolled his eyes and went upstairs to his room to change. He found Ariana laughing in his room. Tears were streaming down her face and she was smiling. Seeing Luke she abruptly frowned.

Luke spoke "I found it funny too."

He went and grabbed his bathing suit shorts from the drawer and found Ariana looking out the window with his back to him. He dropped his pants and underwear as she turned around to say something. He saw her looking at him and turned his back to hide. He heard her giggling as she opened the window and looked out. Luke put on the bathing suit shorts. He looked to see her chest as she changed into her bikini bathing suit. Luke was surprised to see that her chest looked real. He saw her leave without a look at him but he heard her giggling.

Serena and Mark were busy kissing in the dining room with Mark having his hands on her chest when unheard Ariana came in and saw them then she ran out towards the back door through the kitchen. Ariana walked towards the pool area. She was wearing a blue bikini. Luke was already there.

She said "Hi Luke. I hope you mind me for telling you this, I just saw Serena and Mark in the living room kissing and you should see where his hands are."

Luke groaned and spoke "Ugh what does he see in that girl who's hair is fake and her boobs I bet are fake too"

He saw Ariana glaring at him.

"What?" he asked

She replied "Do you think I got this way but the hair is real?" sweeping her long brunette hair down it fell nearly covering her back. Luke gulped.

Serena came to the pool area wearing a gold string bikini. Mark trailed her with snacks and refreshments on a tray.

"Hello Luke" said Serena.

Luke returned the greeting with sarcasm "Hello Serena."

Mark came and put the refreshments and snacks on a table and walked to join them.

"So Mark what were you and Serena doing in the dining room kissing?" said Ariana laughingly.

Serena looked at her at shocked, and asked Luke "Do you believe what she's babbling about?"

Luke stared and said "Duh"

Serena rolled her eyes and said "Idiot."

Mark told Ariana with her lip reading "Me and Serena kissing? Please! Man your nuts!"

Angrily Ariana cannonball into the water splashing Mark in his swim trunks.

Luke yelled "Mark! Do you mind!! We're supposed to have fun!! Not to be mad at each other!!"

And he dived in the pool.

Nobody had fun except Luke. He enjoyed having Ariana teach him some diving tricks. Serena and Mark sulked. Bored the four sat in different chairs at different tables. For a while they sat.

Then Luke got up and spoke "I'm going inside then I'm going hiking to Brittany's cabin. Anybody is welcome to come along"

While noticing Ariana's questioningly glare he added "She's my older sister by two years."

Ariana sigh and said "I'll go with you. I like to meet your sister."

Mark spoke "I'm staying."

Serena gave the same answer. Luke and Ariana went in and changed in different bedrooms. When Ariana came downstairs Luke was waiting for her. Both were dressed in sweatshirts, sweat pants and sneakers left the house by the back door.

"Mark! Were off" Luke yelled at the pool area.

He heard an "OK!" and they both started walking with Luke in the lead with Ariana behind him.

But for Mark and Serena they waited till they couldn't see them any more. Then they jumped in the pool and kissed together in the middle.

Serena said "I'm glad I met you. Luke was being a total bore. He wasn't good in bed. "

Mark agreed and said "Ariana was a boring girlfriend and is not very pretty as you."

Saying this they both kissed again.
Chapter three

After a while of walking Luke and Ariana both sat on a rock to enjoy the view. Suddenly Ariana gave a shout "Luke! Look! There's something white lying over there!"

Luke was startled, looked over and said "Your right there's something over there."

While talking to her so she could lip read. Luke got off the rock and went to inspect the thing she saw. He waved her to come.

Ariana got off the rock and asked him "What is it?" when she saw what appeared to be a dog but at closer inspection it was a white wolf lying there bleeding.

He looked up and said "It's a wolf and it's barely alive."

Ariana shivered "oh my god How are suppose to help it?"

She paused and said "There's no one around."

Another voice spoke "You forgot me."

Luke looked at the direction of the voice came from and was surprised to see Brittany his older sister by two years stood there. Ariana looked and saw Brittany a woman with black hair wearing green army pants and a green army sweatshirt top and said "Are you Brittany?"

Brittany recognized Luke's hand signal of that she was deaf faced her and said "Yes"

Then she looked at the wolf, she added in a rush "We better take that wolf to my cabin. It looks like its shot."

Together the three of them managed to lift the wolf up and carried it to Brittany's cabin but it was too late the wolf died. The cabin to Ariana's surprise was made out of rocks and wood and it had a tree growing out of the one side on top of it. Brittany's cabin looked like it was a big hill growing out of the ground. There was ivy covering the windows.

Brittany at the cabin awning said to Luke and Ariana "That wolf just died must have been shot by a poacher. I saw bullet wounds on him."

Sadly the three of them buried the wolf. Luke and Ariana walked back towards home.

Serena and Mark were preparing a cook out on the grill in the backyard when Luke and Ariana walked out of the forest.

Serena saw them and said "It's a good thing your here. We prepared food on the grill. Do you want some?"

Luke said "No thanks I'm not hungry."

Ariana said the same thing.

"Oh come on and eat" said Mark who came out of the house with four drinks on a tray which he set down on the table.

Luke spoke "Ariana found a wolf lying in the grass in the forest barely alive. Brittany came along. And we took it to her cabin, where it died dead from poachers".

Luke noticed that Mark wasn't surprised about this and seemed glaring.

Mark spoke "Wolves have begun to be a problem around here in Port Monaco."

Serena said "Let's hope they won't bother us."

When the grill was put away and the dishes in the cupboards, Ariana and Serena went to their rooms in the house. Luke mouthed to Ariana to go to his room. Mark was in the big living room adjusting the TV but Luke was outside in the dark watching the stars come out a habit he enjoyed. He was enjoying the darkness and its beauty while sitting in a chair. He fell asleep as in a trance. In it he was in a forest full of snow. He could feel some heat coming from his feet to the tips of his head.

A white wolf met him and stood speaking to Luke "Thank you for finding me and burying my body when I was dead."

Luke spoke questionably "Who are you? What are you thanking me for? I just buried a dead wolf, this afternoon with my sister and girlfriend."

The wolf said "The dead wolf, you and the girls buried was me. I am the spirit of the wolf you and Ariana found, Luke."

Luke wondering said "What do you want?"

The voice of the wolf said "I want nothing from you but to tell you this."

It trailed off and started again. "Before you and your brother were born. I told your mother Cheyenne that her sons will bring trouble, for one will be one of us and the other dead cause of evil."

Shocked Luke said "Whoa!"

The wolf told him "As I tell you this you and the girl Ariana in time will be my revenge for I have chosen you to avenge my death because of the shooting."

Luke said "But why?"

The wolf said "In time you'll know and so will Ariana, but your sister Brittany will know when it comes to you."

Saying this, dream faded away and Luke heard Mark from inside yelling "Luke! Are you going to stay out there all night?"

Luke looked at his brother glaring at the back door and said "All right I'm coming."

He went inside to his bedroom where Ariana lay sleeping away. She didn't stir as he got into the bed.

Then during the night Luke lay wondering what the Wolf spirit was talking about. Finally he went to sleep, wrapping his arms around Ariana.

Next to him Ariana was asleep, but in her mind she was dreaming of being in a snowy forest and saw a white wolf who spoke to her understanding every word "Thank you for finding my body and burying my body."

Ariana thought "Is there something I should do for you in return?"

The spirit said "No, Luke will avenge my death as you will too. For you will know why when the time comes."

Ariana asked "Shall I tell him you spoke to me?"

The spirit said "You'll tell only Luke and Brittany for she will know the reason why when the time comes and she'll tell you and Luke. Good bye"

And the spirit of the wolf let her mind. Ariana lay awake wondering if it was a dream but she had a feeling that it wasn't and went back to sleep cuddled in Luke's arms.

Chapter Four

Morning came and Luke got up and left a sleeping Ariana next to him. He changed clothes and went downstairs through the dining room and entered the kitchen. Nobody was in sight. Luke looked around and spied a note taped to the phone. He walked over to the phone and he read it. It was from Mark and Serena. They were out at a country club to spend the day. Luke instead of eating he sat down and recalled what happened last night. He was still wondering when Ariana dressed in sweats like Luke came in the kitchen startling him.

Ariana spoke "Good morning Luke I'm going to Brittany's. Would you show me the way or you like to come along?"

Luke startled said "I'm coming hold your horses."

He followed Ariana out of the house. He made sure he locked the door and he had the key with him. Then they were on their way to Brittany's cabin.

Walking thought the woods they found Brittany inspecting a young tree.

Luke said "Hello Brittany, How are you? And what's up?"

Brittany looked and said "Why it's my brother and his girlfriend Ariana."

Brittany added noticing their glum faces "Oh well what you two are here for? Not a lectures on nature?"

Ariana spoke "I wanted to ask you about a spirit of a wolf belonging to the wolf we found yesterday."

Shocked Luke said "That's the same reason why I wanted to come here. Crazy, last night I had a dream of a wolf claiming to be the spirit of the wolf we just buried yesterday."

Brittany spoke seriously "We've better talk about this back at my cabin."

They walked through the woods in silence. Ariana was surprised to see the inside of the cabin was a bit on the large size. Inside was a living room with a loft that appeared to be a bedroom and a kitchen unit complete with a radio set on the table, in the living room. There was a corner bathroom in the corner with the door to the bathroom open. As they sat in her cabin in the chairs Brittany prepared drinks of fresh coffee. When they had settled down, both Luke and Ariana told Brittany of their encounters with a wolf spirit.

Brittany said "I don't understand or what the wolf spirit was talking about. But I think it has some thing to do with what Mother told us. Isn't it? "

Luke said "Wait a minute, Mother told us of her story of her encounter with a wolf spirit. She said it was true but Mark didn't believe a word. "

Brittany sigh and said "Luke, remember what Mother said to the two of us before she died?"

Luke answered "Yes"

Ariana being confused put in "Would you to mind telling me the whole story of you and what happened to your parents?"

Both Brittany and Luke exchanged a look but Brittany said "I'll tell the story Luke. When we were young around barely teenagers ourselves, Mother used to tell the three of us the spirit of the wolf story also involving skin walkers. People who could change their forms to Wolf from Human and back like changing skin. I and Luke believe the story but Mark who was like father didn't believe it at all. She told us about people having an ability to change into a wolf like a shape shifter called a skin walker. She told us that because she believes we were skin walkers."

She paused then spoke "About five years later we were at a lady's house in town Port Monaco. Our parents were coming to pick us up but they never got there. The lady, Raya Ioniel got a phone call from a friend who said both our parents were in a car accident caused of a driver avoiding a wolf on the road. Father was hurt paralyzed from waist down but Mother was badly hurt. "

She stopped speaking suddenly as it was pain full to go on so Luke finished for her "We went to the hospital where our parents were. Mom was lying on a bed all covered up in with tubes and bandages that you couldn't recognize her. She asked to speak to the three of us alone. She told us she has seen the wolf spirit. She told Brittany to remain faithful to the forest."

Brittany put in. "She told Luke to be faithful to the forest or the Darkness will use him for evil. But when it was Mark's turn she said you'll die a shameful death but you won't be alone for the one you marry will die with you."

Brittany stopped and buried her face in her hands.

Luke said "Death took her but her last words were bewaring the Darkness! Beware the Darkness will bring death!"

Ariana frowned and asked "What happened to your father?"

Both Brittany and Luke exchanged a sad look and Luke spoke "He's in a nursing home gone mentally ill. He still mourns our mother Cheyenne."

A car came in the drive of the Morgan mansion home. It was Mark and Serena. They went inside, nobody was there waiting but a note on the kitchen table. Mark picked it up and read it out loud to Serena.

"Mark we're at Brittany's might be staying over night. See you in the morning, Luke and Ariana."

Mark put the letter back on the table.

Serena spoke "Penny for you thoughts Mark?"

She was wearing a sleek black dress with high heels and her face was touched up with make up. Mark spoke "Sorry I was thinking what to do tonight since Luke and Ariana is out at Brittany's cabin and they'll be back tomorrow morning."

He stared out the window at the dark sky.

Serena said in a sexy voice "It's time to shower and get ready for bed."

Before Mark protested she pulled him by his tie.

Chapter five

It was late in the morning when Luke awoke from lying on the couch bed covered in a sheet with Ariana lay next to him sleeping away. Sun was streaming in through the ivy covered windows. Brittany was no where to be seen. Luke sighed and assumed that Brittany was out hiking doing her usual rounds. Yawning Luke got up putting on his clothes on his naked form and went to the kitchen unit to prepare some breakfast. He was sitting there eating when Ariana woke up and sat down to share the food while putting on her clothes over her form.

She spoke "Morning Luke is Brittany out hiking again?"

Luke said "Yes she always do that hike in good or bad weather."

Ariana nodded and joined him. The front door of the cabin banged as Brittany walked in and she came to them.

Luke saw her and asked "How's the forest?"

Brittany answered "Doing fine, never felt better."

After breakfast was over, both Luke and Ariana bid Brittany good bye and walked toward the Morgan home through the forest.

When they got home a sad Mark gave his brother a letter. Luke took the letter and read it.

"Dear Brittany, Luke and Mark,

I sadly inform you the passing of your father. He left a will. The house, the pool house and its grounds go to both Luke and Mark. The cabin in the woods is to Brittany. A red jeep is for Luke. A black corvette is for Mark. The deed to the cabin is to Brittany. I must add that these gifts were originally Christmas gifts. Please bear the news as you can. The funeral is on Saturday this week, family members only. I 'm sorry your father died.

Sincerely a friend of your father

Timothy Jones Senior"

Luke handed the letter back to his brother Mark. Sadly knowing his father was gone.

Luke spoke to Ariana "Ariana? Our father died. The funeral is on Saturday, strictly family only. I want you to go home for a few days. We need some time to ourselves to mourn for our father."

Ariana sniffed and said "I'm going to get my stuff."

She went out of the kitchen then she poked her though the kitchen doorway.

She said "Who's going to tell Brittany?"

Mark answered her" I called her on the radio while you were on the trail; she's coming over to prepare for the funeral. Serena is going home for a few days."

Ariana nodded and went back up stairs to pack. Later Ariana left to her parents' home in the city suburbs. Brittany came in the house with two suitcases in hand. Her eyes were red from crying. Luke did his best not to cry as Mark weep. Upset the three hugged each other.

Saturday came along quickly. The three dressed in black were not the only ones at the funeral. About a large continent of people came to the funeral. The priest read the eulogy then a poem. When he finish the coffin was lowered in the ground next to the grave of his wife. Then groups of people left by two's or three's till Brittany and her brothers were left. They sat around all day moping in sadness at the Morgan home.

After three days of moping Brittany declared "I have enough of mourning. I have to go on in life. So I'm going back to my cabin."

She went upstairs then minuets later she was back with two suitcases and she left by the back door without saying good bye. The two brothers did nothing but went upstairs to their bedrooms to cry

Two days later car horns were heard by the brothers startling Luke and Mark sitting in chairs on the patio in front of the house. A red jeep and a black corvette came in the drive. When they stopped Ariana came out of the jeep as Serena came out of the corvette.

Both yelled "Surprised!"

Confused Luke and Mark came to meet them and they both kissed the girls and were asking questions. "Where did you get the jeep and car?"

Ariana yelled "Quiet!"

Then she said "Brittany called Serena from her cabin and told her, who told me that you were down in the dumps, so we decided to cheer you up."

Mark said "Father's will issued the Luke gets the jeep and I get the corvette and "

Serena interrupted him by planting a big kiss on his mouth.

Then she said "We went and get the vehicles for you so are you going to take them for a spin?"

Luke said "Alright, Ariana is coming with me and I want the keys for the jeep."

He opened his hand. Ariana planted a kiss on the mouth and handed him his keys. Laughing he carried Ariana to the jeep as Mark carried Serena to the corvette.

It was a fun day. Luke drove around in his new jeep with Ariana at his side as Mark enjoyed the corvette with Serena at his side. Luke thought about driving to the gym and decided against it. So he took her to a mountain point where they enjoyed the view and made love.

Mark with Serena drove his car to a club where the two of them had fun together.

It was dark when Luke and Ariana drove up in his jeep in the drive of the Morgan home. When they came inside Mark and Serena were there smiling.

Curious Luke asked "Hey what's the smiles faces?"

Serena got up and shrieked "We're getting married!"

Then she showed them a diamond ring on her left hand ring finger.

Mark said "Isn't wonderful? We'll tie the knot next week on Sunday."

Luke noticed that Mark wasn't happy about that and seemed angry. He made a mental note to ask his brother about that later.

Ariana protested "Isn't unusual for couples to get married after knowing each other for a few weeks?"

Luke agreed "Sorry no offense but I think she could be right."

Mark opened his mouth to protest but Serena cut him off by saying. "So what, we have a lot of things in common and we love each other. So please get use to the idea that we're getting married and we have no choice for I'm pregnant."

Both Luke and Ariana were shocked.

Mark spoke "It's true but we'll be married here then we'll go spend a few weeks on a honeymoon."

Ariana asked "How are you going to prepare for the wedding?"

This got the four to speechless thinking of the upcoming wedding.

Chapter Six

The house for the next few days was prepared for the wedding. People were coming in and out. The pool house was also prepared too. Serena spent all day with Ariana shopping for the perfect wedding dress. Mark and Luke were busy in and out pointing where the decorations should go to or the tables and food with Brittany helping. The boys spent the rest of the day tuxedo shopping for the perfect one for the groom Mark and his best man Luke. Meanwhile the girls were at a bridal shop. Serena was modeling a gown she had on. It had puffed up sleeves with a puffed up skirt.

Serena asked Ariana for her opinion. "What do you think?"

Ariana stared and said "I don't think that dress is you. It's too fluffy and is not your style."

Serena sighed and went to try on another dress. This time the dress had short sleeves puffed with a long skirt. Over the skirt was a puffed mini with a train at the back. The dress showed her ample cleavage.

Ariana said "Serena? That dress is you. So have you decided what veil?"

Serena went back to the dressing room and came out with her veil. It had fake flowers with a crown and a shoulder length veil on her head.

She asked Ariana "What do you think?"

Ariana answered "You look like a princess" while secretly giggling behind her hand.

At another store across town Mark and his brother were trying on tuxedoes. Mark asked Luke's opinion on the tuxedo he had on. It was white with black collar, tie and the waist band was also black.

Luke said "Mark, It's you."

Mark spoke "Luke has you chosen a tuxedo?"

Luke went in the dressing room and came out wearing a black tuxedo with a white shirt and blue tie with a waistband.

Luke asked his brother." Mark what do you think?"

Mark replied "You look good and it's you. So I guess if you wear this tuxedo to the wedding and I'll wear this one."

When the brothers got home the same time as Serena and Ariana, the house, the pool house and the grounds were beautifully decorated. They ooh and ahh.

Brittany came out of the house and asked them" Like it? I had some of the bushes trimmed."

Serena said "I love the house decorations! I can't wait for the wedding!"

Everyone agreed.

The wedding day Sunday was a beautiful sunny day. There wasn't a cloud in the sky. The backyard was prepared for a wedding. The musician, designers, and other workers came to do some last minute finishing touches. The guests were to arrive at the appointed hour in the afternoon. Ariana and Serena spent all morning putting makeup and getting their hair up in styles. The twin brothers however had themselves in the pool house before the appointed time for guests to arrive. The twins in their tuxes were downstairs ready to greed their guests. They look like mirror images except for Luke's long flowing hair. Later Brittany came over to help the girls get ready for the wedding. Serena with Brittany's help Ariana put her maid of honor dress. It was a sleeveless dress with a long skirt, in the color of red with pink flowered decoration. Her hair was styled in a French braid with a ribbon in it. Then they helped Serena put on her put on her white dress. Her blond shoulder length hair was left down. The veil made her look prettier. Brittany's dress was just light green in the same style of Ariana's dress. Brittany had her hair put in a pony tail. Neither girl could say a thing for each was so pretty that they couldn't tell each other. Then it was time to go downstairs to the pool house where the wedding was held and the guests waited.

When they reached they reached the pool house Serena's father George Shaw stood there waiting. Beaming with happiness her took her hand and waited. The music of the piano sounded with Brittany in the lead and Ariana in the rear holding the train to Serena's wedding dress, all walked to the yard behind the house. All the guests were standing beaming with happiness. As Serena reached the arch where the priest was, her father gave her away and went to sit down. Serena was joined with Mark. Side by side they stood waiting for the priest to start.

The priest asked "Serena Shaw, do you wish to take Mark Morgan as your husband as long you live?"

Serena said "I do"

Then the priest asked to Mark. "Mark Morgan, do you wish to take Serena Shaw as your wife as long you live?"

And without hesitating he spoke "I do ".

Then the priest announced them man and wife. Rings were a changed and the bride and the groom kissed. The guests cheered and gave a standing ovation.

Chapter seven

The party was going full blast. The guests were talking, dancing, and eating. The bride and groom were busy displaying their gifts they opened. Ariana was having fun snapping pictures and talking with Luke. As for Brittany she was busy getting aquatinted with Serena's parents, George and Linda Shaw whom Brittany learned that Serena was adopted at three years old.

Brittany spoke "Mr. Shaw you have a pretty well mannered young daughter."

Mr. Shaw said "Please call me George. Serena wasn't always well mannered. She was one of the strangest children we ever got."

Linda his wife spoke "I don't understand why she's marring Mark Morgan. They have nothing in common except their family feud enemies."

Brittany asked "Excuse me Linda, what do you mean by their family feud enemies?"

Linda sighed and spoke " What I mean is that Serena's name was originally Lisa Snake and from your family history. Your tribe name is Wolf which means the Snakes and the Wolfs' tribes were enemies. Something to do with stealing the house and land from each other, whichever."

Shocked Brittany had trouble believing it.

The bride and groom were busy dancing and kissing mostly to learn what Brittany learned. Finally after awhile the bride with Brittany and Ariana's help sneaked upstairs in the pool house to change for the honeymoon. Her wedding dress was put away some where safe. The outfit for the honeymoon was a white flowered dress with purple lace. The three helped put the luggage in a limo that will take them to an airport. When they got to the front yard of the Morgan home, the guests were waiting with rice in hand. Mark and Serena joined hands and ran down the serenade of people throwing rice. Before getting in the car, Serena threw her bouquet over her head. It was caught by her sister Susanna Shaw. Then the couple drove away with people waving good bye. As for the guests they began leaving soon after the new couple left. Then the decorations on both the house and the pool house were taken down. Every evidence of a wedding was taken down and put away. But for the bride and grooms gifts were put in the house. Exhausted Brittany, Luke and Ariana sat in chairs resting on the porch that lead to the back yard watching the sun go down.

Ariana sigh and said "I'm going to the main house besides it was an exhausting day."

She yawned as Brittany spoke "I'm coming with you, Luke, when you are going inside?"

Luke replied "Later I want to watch the sky. For it's pretty."

Together the two women walked up the path leading to the main house in silence. Luke looked at the sky. Slowly the sky changed from the color of red to purple which changed to blue. It was fascinating to watch the sky change colors. Slowly like lights turned on the stars shined twinkling in the dark sky.

As Luke got up to leave, a voice spoke out of nowhere said "Time of that will torn your family apart is coming nearer. Enjoy last days of peace, for the struggle between two tribes shall continue till my death is avenged. Farewell Luke"

Luke shocked at what he heard sadly went in the main house.

When he came in Brittany was watching the TV while Ariana was reading a book from her sitting on the couch. Brittany looked up and nudged Ariana. She looked up and was surprise to see Luke's face was sad.

Ariana asked him "What's wrong Luke? You look like you've been to funeral."

Luke sadly looked at her and spoke "The wolf spirit told me the time of trouble is coming nearer. I must enjoy my days as well as I can."

Sadly Brittany told Luke of what Serena's foster parents had told her but they were both shocked to learn this.

Chapter eight

Two weeks later it was the month of June. Luke was outside washing and cleaning his jeep with Ariana's help. Brittany was busy inspecting every tree, plant, and bush and was doing some gardening work on the front lawn. When a gleaming white van came in the drive way, Luke watched the van came in, and then it stopped. Curious both Brittany and Ariana came over with Luke to see who it was. Then out of both passenger and driver's sides were Mark and his wife. There was a wonderful reunion.

In the mist of it Brittany asked "How come you're back early from the honeymoon?"

Mark answered "We had news to tell you. Serena found out her biological parents and where their living"

Excited Serena said "Some time later this week I'm going to meet them. Oh I'm sorry Mark you're going to have to stay. I want to meet my parents myself."

Mark shrugged and said "Since you let me come at least you can let me kiss you good bye." Serena agreed and the two of them went inside.

Later Mark and Luke were outside walking around the grounds of the house. The sky was darkening for night time was coming.

Luke sighed and asked Mark "Remember the stories Mom used to tell us Mark? After you heard them you said they were nothing like lies? Well their not."

Annoyed Mark glared at his brother and said "Do you mind? I don't want to hear about this nonsense again?"

With a huff Mark stomped off and accidentally bumped in Ariana who was coming to find them. Angrily he marched up the patio door and went in banging the door.

Under the porch light shining on them Ariana asked "Luke what's his problem?"

Luke shrugged and said "He's mad when I tried talking about those stories Mom told us when we were kids. Damn, I thought he changed his feelings about the stories but I guess I was wrong." Ariana nodded and said "I came out to remind you that it's getting late."

Luke kissed her on the lips and the two, hand and hand went in the house.

Mornings were one of Mark's favorite times of the day. He left his wife sleeping and clad in his white pj's with a purple bathrobe over it he went downstairs. In the kitchen eating was his brother Luke and Ariana.

Luke saw him and said "Look Mark I'm sorry about what I told you last night. I assume your feeling about them might have changed, but I guess I was wrong so no hard feelings."

He held out his hand.

Mark sighed and said "Ok I forgive you but please don't mention them in my face again. Serena, upstairs is still not over that jet lag and she's not feeling well so I'm getting some breakfast for her."

Mark went to get a tray with Luke's help the tray was piled with some breakfast food. Mark then went upstairs to his sleeping wife.

Ariana waited till he was gone spoke "Luke it's a shame Mark doesn't know he married Lisa Snake."

Luke agreed.

Ariana continued "I'm going to the pool house. Care to join me?"

Luke thought for a minute and said "I guess so"

Serena came downstairs and stood in front of the kitchen doors and heard every word the two said. Anger clouded her. She swore and thought of a plan to get rid of them for she did not want them telling Mark her real identity. She quietly and quickly slipped upstairs a plan hatching in her mind. Minutes later Ariana and Luke went upstairs to his room to change.

When Luke came out of his room he heard voices loud from Mark's bedroom. He wasn't sure what was wrong for the voices sounded a bit angry. So he decided to eavesdrop.

Mark's voice was saying "Ok I'll get the ownership for the house if you want."

Serena's voice was saying "Don't forget the pool house the lands and plus the cabin in the woods."

Mark's voice spoke "Err Serena? The cabin belongs to Brittany legally."

Serena's voice said "Not anymore for I want all the lands to the Morgan house to us for you got married first so you should get everything, and you said your Father favorites you. If your Father favorites you, why is half of the house and the cabin willed to his least favorite kids?"

Mark sigh and said "Because Mother willed that when Father dies half the house goes to Luke and the other to me."

Luke was busy engrossed listening to see Ariana opened the door that he fell in. Surprised Mark and Serena looked to see Luke.

Luke spoke "Excuse me for interrupting but I couldn't help hearing, but what's this about you owning everything?"

Serena glared and said "I hope you mind packing for this house was legally Mark's and (Stopping to get pick a piece of paper.) Last week I filed ownership papers for Mark Morgan."

She handed them the piece of paper which Luke in anger glanced at it.

Ariana yelled "Mark Morgan! That woman you married is Lisa Snake your family feud enemy! And your letting her takes all of the Morgan land in her name!"

Luke immediately said "You have any copies?"

Serena spoke dismissing Ariana "No I didn't have time!"

Luke in anger ripped the paper in many pieces and said "Mark if you want the house then your going to have to fight me for this."

Mark yelled " Fine we'll do man to man out side!"

The two brothers stumped downstairs to outside.

Ariana yelled "I'm calling Brittany!"

But Serena stopped her by yelling "Do you think I'll let Mark own this house? No! This house belonged to the Snake tribe and that father of Mark took it! So don't even think of telling Brittany this."

Serena grabbed a gun from the bed stand and Ariana did a karate kick that knocked the gun out of Serena's hand. The women fought but Ariana kicked her in the head. It was enough to knock her unconscious.

Then she ran to the radio in Luke's room and dialed Brittany's radio number Ariana yelled "Brittany! You got to come over! Serena is crazy and Luke is fighting Mark for ownership of the house! Hurry storm's a coming!"

Ariana dropped the radio and darted outside to the back yard where the boys were fighting.
Chapter nine

Out side it began to rain the clouds were piling up. In the mist of this Serena left, carrying the gun she left the house and ran in the pool house where she hid.

Outside Brittany came running out of the forest yelling "When I get my hands on Lisa Snake I'll wring her neck!"

It began to rain harder, to take cover the fighting boys ran in the pool house basement .The girls followed in time to see Serena aiming her gun at Luke.

Ariana yelled "No!

The distraction took for Serena to fire it accidentally missing Luke's arm. Ariana went to help him, crazy and insane Serena aimed her gun at Luke. Brittany ran and knocked the gun out of her hands. Enraged Serena grabbed a chemical of unknown contents and was going to throw it when Brittany tried to stop her. They struggled but it dropped on the floor spilling its contents on both Luke and Ariana. Luke screamed of pain and ran outside. Brittany again tried to knock out Serena but she ran outside in the pouring rain with Brittany following her. Serena easily eluded her and ran back to the pool house with Brittany following.

Already now the storm was getting worse. It was raining but now it was thundering and lightning flashed now and then. Luke ran through the forest in pain. He was blindly being knocked by trees that were in his way. He picked himself and kept running. Pain was all over his body. He staggered towards a tree and lay down. The chemicals were hurting him that he lay moaning in pain. Meanwhile Ariana was running in the forest looking for Luke. She ran till she fell over Luke and was held by him. He gripped her in a hug as she shivered staring at him as he kissed her.

The storm was getting worse as minutes pasted. Serena was busy helping Mark and tending his bruises in the pool house.

Brittany stood in front of them and said "I'm going to call police on the phone."

Hardly when she turned around and took a step, when she was knocked down, she was hit smack on the head and fell and hit the floor.

Serena stood and picked up the gun she threw at Brittany in hand and said "Nobody will ever know the truth of what happened here!"

Serena threatened Mark till he was force to agree. Together the two tied Brittany and bounded her to a pipe in a closet in the basement of the pool house.

The sun was shining when morning came. In a bedroom in the main house Serena got up and left her husband sleeping. She quickly handcuffed Mark to the railing of the bed. Grabbing her bathrobe over her svelte body, she went downstairs and to the phone.

She dialed a number, someone answered saying "Port Monaco, Police department. how we can help you?"

Serena said "This is Serena Shaw Morgan; Get me Detective Douglas Wilson please. I and my husband are in danger."

Later police sirens were heard by the Serena and Mark who were in the house as a patrol car came into the driveway of the Morgan home. Mark with Serena came out to meet the men coming out of the car. One of the men an older man with apparent dirty blonde hair, dressed in tan pants, and a tan T-shirt with a badge on his left came and introduced himself "Detective Douglas Wilson. What's the problem?"

Mark said "Three people came in our house during the storm and tried to kill us."

Serena added "I'm still not well from the being punched. I think the woman who did this to me had a gun."

Mark spoke at Serena's nudge "I got in a fight with a male, it was too dark to see who but he tried to knock me in the head."

Serena said "I managed to knock one them out with a crow bar she's still in the pool house all tied up. I think her name is something like Marina"

While Mark and Serena were talking to Detective Wilson another officer was busy jotting down notes.

Chapter Ten

Detective Wilson sent some officers to check out the pool house. Like military men, with guns drawn they got to the cellar. Brittany was gone. What were left on the floor were ropes that appeared to be ripped apart.

One of the officers spoke on the radio on his belt," The suspect Marina isn't here but the pool house checks out. Except the lab room looks like there was a fight."

Detective Wilson spoke on his radio." Copy; search the pool house and the estate around it. I want lab teams on the double to take any evidence up."

He heard the word "Affirmative" then voices of other officers were yakking on the radio.

Officers David Cox and April Leah were inspecting the cellar when noises of clanging and banging were heard coming from the boiler room.

Quietly Officer Cox spoke on his radio "This is Officer Cox. Noises were heard from the boiler room suspects may be in there. Lt. Leah is with me. We request backup. Over"

The two officers who heading to the cellar were joined by Officers Alan Jones and the detective Wilson's young son blonde haired, barely an Officer Coyote Wilson when they arrived the four officers immediately cautiously went in the boiler room with guns drawn. Nobody was in sight, but there were just machines. That filled the space under the Swimming pool.

Officer Cox said "We'll cover more ground if were split up. Maintain communication."

Then the four split up in different directions.

Officer Cox walked along the machines near the darkest parts when suddenly a movement out of the corner of his eye. He turned and looked. There was no one in sight. He spoke on his radio "Lt. Cox here I sighted some one could be one of the suspects I'm going to check it out."

Officer Cox slowly put out his flashlight and edged to where he seen someone. A sound was heard behind a boiler. Cautiously he edged his way around toward the noise. Lt. Leah a woman police officer was finishing her side and was edging toward Officer Cox's direction when a scream was heard. She ran toward the screams yelling on her radio and gasped as she saw Cox lying like he was dead. A movement came at her and she fired her gun yelling.

Mark and his wife Serena were sitting in the kitchen talking to detective Wilson when Leah's voice came on the radio screaming. "This is Officer Leah! Officer Cox is down! Request Medics! Repeat "

Then a gun shot and a scream as growls were heard on the radio then silence.

Detective Wilson immediately yelled on the radio " Officers down Cox and Leah Pool house boiler room Any Officers nearing the premise go and help Careful the might be some animal there."

The first officers to reach the scene were Officers Chang Lin an Asian woman with Manual Vega a Latino. They rushed to the room where the fallen officers lay. Officers Jones and Wilson were already there inspecting and gathering evidence.

Officer Lin said "Whoa! What the ? Ew! Gross! What happened here?"

Officer Jones replied. "Eww is right these two look like some one ripped their guts out and scratched them."

Then they suddenly heard a sound like a door slamming.

Officer Vega said quietly "What was that?"

Officer Wilson said " Shh I'm gonna check it out."

He went toward the direction where the sound was heard with gun drawn.

Officer Lin said "Careful! Detective Wilson said it could be some animal."

Officer Vega said "Don't worry Chang He can take care of himself."

Officer Lin spoke "Cute guy. Hope he doesn't get in trouble like Cox and Leah did."

Officer Wilson cautiously went out of sight, to the door that led to outside. Officer Wilson looked around but as he was coming back in he notice footprints. They were odd. An animal with human feet and claws was what it seems. Then he after covering the area went inside.

When he got to the scene paramedics were inspecting Cox and Leah. Other officers were there along with his father Detective Wilson.

Officer Lin asked him "Did you find anything outside?"

Officer Wilson replied "I found footprints belonging to an animal and claw scratches on the door when I came in"

Detective Wilson who was eavesdropping said "Medics inspect the door and the ground outside immediately!"

Some officers went outside the door.

Detective Wilson then spoke "I'm going to the main house to tell the Morgans our progress."

He went out side using the same exit where Officer Wilson found the footprints but he was careful not to step on the prints.

Officer Lin commented "Nice chief, but a bit strict."

Officer Wilson spoke "Especially if he's your father."

Detective Wilson walked along the forest path that led to the main house. He had a feeling in his gut the he was being watched. He looked around; there was no one unusual around but his officers. He thought it was ridiculous and continued walking. Slowly the eyes that watched him sped away into the forest.

Chapter Eleven

In an old unused cabin, groggily Brittany was waking up. She was a bit woozy from the bump on her head. She looked around the cabin. The cabin was a one room with a private bathroom in one of the corners, and there was a fireplace. An old fashion table and chairs sat near a wall. The sofa Brittany was lying on was facing the fireplace with its back on the wall. Chairs like the sofa were scattered around the room. Brittany tried to remember what happen. Slowly as she regained her memory she remembered being in the pool house, about to go call the police when she was hit in the head. Not hard, but enough to knock her out just enough to cause some great pain in her gut. When she came to she lying on the floor tied up in what seemed to be the cellar. Someone, an animal, was gnawing at the ropes she was tied to. The animal gnawed the ropes during her hazy sight changed form to be a Humanoid figure that picked her up when finished. Then carried her through the boiler room with a fast pace jiggling her that she fell asleep that she didn't know what happened next. Still feeling dizzy with a headache she fell asleep.

At the main house Detective Wilson came in through the back door with a slam of anger. It startled Mark and his wife plus several officers.

Detective Wilson said sadly, "Two of my officers are dead. By my point of view they were killed by something pointing to an animal."

Mark shocked said "Animal?"

Serena put in saying "Animals? That's unheard of! What ever it is, I'm not sticking around here in Port Monaco to find out! "

Mark agreed.

Detective Wilson sighs and spoke "I'm not sure if it's a good idea. Your sister, Brittany was reported missing a few hours ago. I want the two of you to stay in case she tries to reach you."

Mark said "Ok well we'll stay" before Serena could talk.

Serena who was boiling in anger got up and yelled angrily "I'm leaving to my parents in a few days! I've never met them for I was adopted and you spoil my fun! So forget it! I'm leaving!" She stomped out of the kitchen through the dining room and went upstairs. Meanwhile officers were still searching the forests for clues and Brittany.

Miles away in an old unused cabin long ago forgotten, Brittany was awake but not fully recovered from the bump on her head. She was inspecting the cabin. She found two doors beside the fireplace on each side. She opened the left door and in it was a bathroom with a tub and shower. Brittany inspected the bathroom and tried to take a shower. It was good to take a warm shower. Taking her clothes off she showered. When she finished, she changed into the clothes left lying on the floor which were, faded blue jeans, white turtle neck long sleeve shirt with someone's old red plaid shirt. The clothes were fit for a man but Brittany didn't care. She left the bathroom and went to inspect the other door like the bathroom door it opened in to what appeared to be a small kitchen. The refrigerator had food and drinks. In the cupboards were some packages of candy left by some kids. Brittany checked to see if the food was okay and opened the packages. It had been hours since her last meal. She went out of the kitchen area and went in the living room eating. Near the same wall as the sofa was a bookcase full of books. Brittany went to inspect them when something caught her eye. It was lying on the floor. Brittany went to inspect it, and picked it up. She gasped for it was Luke's shirt and it was ripped by an animal. Brittany sighed and went to the bookcase, picked out a book to read.

She said thinking "Whoever brought me here, I'll thank that person."

She was so engrossed in the book she was reading, she failed to notice that she was being watched through a hole in the wall that led to outside.

It was sunset and at the Morgan house. Detective Wilson and his officers were just finishing up and were leaving.

Detective Wilson said "Mr. Morgan there's something we can do but I don't know how this case of yours will help our case. If we have any new leads we'll call you."

Detective Wilson turned to leave when Mark stopped him and said "Well since my wife left for town to visit her parents, I'll be in the city suburbs of Wolfville visiting my uncle Belen."

Detective Wilson added "Does your wife know that you are leaving town too?"

Mark answered him "Yes and here's the keys to the house and the grounds whatever."

Detective Wilson nodded and left with the keys. Mark lingered for a while and left for the road in his car.

Hours passed for Brittany. Bored with the book she was reading, she decided to explore the cabin. She spied a door she had not opened. She walked a couple paces when she heard growling. Hearing that, she looked around and saw nothing that indicated the growling. She was about to walk a step when she saw it. In the darkest corner sat something alive and moving. Brittany keeping an eye on the moving figure edged herself slowly towards the door. The figure sprang and Brittany darted out of the way. Brittany stared with shock. It was a gray wolf who growled at her.

Brittany spoke "I see you don't want me to leave. Okay."

Then she went to sit down while staring at the wolf. The eyes eerie reminded her of someone she knew but she couldn't figure it out.

Chapter Twelve

In Wolfville, Connecticut, it was after dark that the two Mark and his Uncle Belen sat on chairs in the cabin besides a fire talking. Mark told Uncle Belen the events that happened at the Morgan home in Port Monaco.

Uncle Belen spoke "Odd. The creature that killed the officers Cox and Leah must be a skin walker."

Mark asked questionably "Skin walker?"

Uncle Belen replied "Yes, the skin walker is an old family legend. It's an ability to change your form to any animal like it's a piece of clothing. The common form is the wolf."

Mark shuddered in fear.

Uncle Belen noticed this for he spoke "Mark, if you're tired. Go up to bed it's getting late."

Mark nodded and got up from his seat. Uncle Belen joined him. They were about to got inside when a woman's scream was heard. Both men immediately ran outside.

A woman came running toward them crying out "Help! A wolf got Jared!"

Uncle Belen froze for Jared was his son and he recognized the woman to be Jared's girlfriend, Mary Snake. A movement caught her eye and she tripped screaming for there was a wolf crouched to the ground growling. Uncle Belen and Mark stared in horror. Without a warning the wolf sprang at them. Uncle Belen blocked the wolf's attack with his arms and the two were rolling around wrestling then the wolf let go of Uncle Belen who got up and ran towards the two. Mark pulled Mary back while grabbing a broom and used it to whack the wolf. The wolf sprang and met the broom whacked in its face. Dazed the wolf stepped back and sprang again, but a gunshot was heard. Mark immediately shined the flashlight at the wolf as it and ran away. Then three breathe with a sigh of relief. Quickly Uncle Belen with long gun in hand ushered Mark and the shaking Mary inside.

The sun rise shining her rays above the horizon of morning. Mark got up from the old couch he was sleeping on. Mary Snake was sleeping in a bundle of blankets by the fireplace. Mark looked around and saw Uncle Belen sitting in a chair outside. Mark went out to join him. Uncle Belen was smoking a pipe and he was sleeping. Mark recalled the events that happened last night. Just as he shined the flashlight on the strange wolf he gasped in surprise to see it was Luke his twin brother in his ripped pants, sitting there glaring before he changed his form to a wolf that ran away.

"Oh by the One" Mark said to himself.

"Why did the skin walkers choose your brother Luke, Mark?"

Startled Mark looked at the speaker Uncle Belen was awake and he again spoke " Mark did you kill a wolf?"

Mark sighed and spoke "Yes. Some time ago I was cleaning Dad's long gun behind the pool house. I was cleaning it when I saw a wolf. The wolf looked sick with rabies judging by the way it stalked me. The wolf was all white and had saliva on its mouth and the eyes looked blood shot red. It growled at me and it looked like it'll attack me that I backed up. I was right for it sprang at me and I had no choice but to shot it dead. I also moved the body near a rock."

Uncle Belen frowned and looked away still smoking. The flume from the pipe swirled and went into the mist of the cold morning.

Chapter Thirteen

In Port Monaco, Detective Wilson was enjoying the peace and quiet of the office. He was busy doing some paper work with a hot cup of coffee steaming at his side. Then the phone in his office rang very loudly startling him that he knocked his coffee spilling it on to the floor.

Detective Wilson grabbed the phone and spoke "Detective Douglas Wilson here"

He paused and yelled "What!"

Then he ran out of his office. Minutes later Detective Wilson was in his car on the road to Wolfville. The phone call was from Sheriff Steamboat from the Native American reservation. The sheriff told the detective that a case similar of the officer murders has opened.

By car it took the detective two hours when he was nearing the outskirts of the small town Wolfville near the Native American reservation. As he was driving a movement in the forest caught his eye and he slowed the car to look. A figure in fur darted away in the forest. Detective Wilson stopped his car on the road and pulled out his gun. He walked into the forest with gun drawn. He looked around but there was no one in sight, for it was so quiet. Not a sound but the wind was blowing. Detective Wilson thought it was odd and then after a final check he went back to his car and putting the gun back on its holster he drove away. The figure silently went away deep into the forest.

Somewhere in Port Monaco forests in an old unused cabin, Brittany Morgan was wakening by Ariana who was wearing a men's plaid shirt and was staring at her.

Brittany spoke "I know your secret and you don't have to hide it from me."

Ariana gasped.

Brittany asked her "How did you get like this?"

Ariana answered "I don't know but it could be the chemicals Serena no Lisa threw at us." Brittany rebuked that remark by saying "Ridiculous! The chemicals were only pool cleaner chemicals."

Ariana thought for a minute and spoke "When the chemicals were on me I was in pain that it made me crazy enough to run outside. Some instinct told me to follow Luke like he my mate." Brittany replied "You two been hanging around together a lot."

Ariana frowned and spoke "I'm worried about Luke. He left swearing revenge on Mark. It's not like him to do that."

Brittany signed "My guess the skin walkers is using him to kill the wolf killer."

Then she paused and continued "Does Luke have the ability like you do?"

Ariana nodded yes and warned "Be careful he did do some mating with me just after we changed forms."

Shocked Brittany could guess what Luke did to her.

She spoke "What about you? Is the skin walkers' using you?"

Ariana replied "No but I feel rage and anger including instincts cloud my mine that I can't think." Brittany sighed and put a hand to her head. She still hadn't recovered from the bump Serena hit her on her head.

Brittany spoke "Ariana if you don't mind but I'm going to sleep. I feel a little tired."

Ariana got up from the couch where Brittany was and sat in a chair. Soon Brittany was asleep.

Chapter fourteen

In the forests of Wolfville, a group of hunters mostly men with long guns in hand were walking in groups of twos and threes hunting. They edged along the forest inspecting every plant, bush, and tree for clues. Old Joe Cooper who was far ahead was inspecting something when he heard a noise behind him. He looked around and saw a wolf. The wolf attacked him. Joe screamed. Jack Leaves an old friend heard Joe's scream. He ran to the scene. He was surprise to see a wolf dead and a man wearing fur stood over him. Jack aimed his gun at the creature and then creature looked at him. Jack gasped. He couldn't believe what he was seeing. It was his friend Luke Morgan, Mark's twin brother. The two locked eyes and then Luke speeded away. Jack ran to where Joe lay and felt for a pulse. There was one.

Joe spoke weakly "The skin walker man saved my life from that wolf."

Jack turned and yelled to his companions. "Hey! This is Jack! Joe is down from a wolf attack! And you'll never believe this! "

A voice yelled back "Never believe what Jack?"

Jack replied "Luke Morgan saved Joe's life but Luke is a skin walker."

A chorus of "What?" startled him.

He looked up to see his companions. Some were busy helping Joe with first aid.

Jack barked orders "Move it! Get Joe to the hospital and get this wolf body to the sheriff!!"

Back in town the story of Luke Morgan saving Joe's life and looking like a skin walker spread throughout the town. People were telling each other the story. Detective Wilson pulled up in his car in front of the sheriff's building. He walked inside. Inside was a lounge room. Wilson passed it and went to the down at the end of the room. It led to a hallway with an adjoining open office at the right. It wasn't noisy or busy like the Port Monaco Police precinct.

One of the officers spoke, "Hello Detective Wilson, The name's Ramsey Eagle and the chief is waiting for you at his office."

Detective Wilson nodded and went to the direction Ramsey jerked his thumb pointing. In the Sheriff's office the sheriff a man of forties with white black long hair sat at his desk.

The sheriff spoke "Detective Wilson I presume?"

Detective Wilson spoke "I got a call about a lead in the officer murders and decided to check it out."

Sheriff Steamboat spoke "In the officer murders a wolf was found dead near the crime scene. Here a wolf was found dead near a victim Joe Cooper of an attack and the victim survived."

Picking up a folder the sheriff handed it to the Detective.

Sheriff Steamboat spoke. "A witness Jack Leaves saw Luke Morgan at the crime scene looking like he was covered in fur, or a freak according to the witness Jack Leaves."

Detective spoke up from reading the folder "Freak? I find this ridiculous."

The sheriff spoke "There's more. Days ago a wolf was found dead near Jared Morgan a relative of the Morgan's, a victim of an attack but he survived. He claimed Luke Morgan saved his life. But unexpectedly a wolf attacked Mary Snake a girlfriend of Jared. "

Detective Wilson asked "Why drag me all the way down here?"

Sheriff Steamboat spoke "The lab analysis on the dead wolf is that it's the same on all the attacks. It seems the wolf is a skin walker always rising never die till the one that shot it is dead. " Detective Wilson spoke" Why bring a Port Monaco police department to Wolfville instead of the authorities? "

The sheriff spoke "Because there's a belief among us that a member of your police department is the only one who can shoot the skin walker wolf dead preventing more attacks."

Detective Wilson spoke "Sorry I'm here for the case not to have one of my officers' shoot a wolf. It's against the law in the state of Connecticut."

Saying this he turned and left. The Sheriff grabbed his phone and dialed something.

After waiting he spoke "Sheriff Steamboat here, Detective Wilson is being a skeptic we need to convince him this."

A few seconds of silent then he added "Fine."

And then he hung up.

Chapter Fifteen

When Brittany woke up on the couch she found a white quilt that was turning yellow of age on her. She got up and looked around, Ariana was gone. The door looked like it was smashed open. Brittany went to the door and walked outside. Rays of the afternoon sun blinded her and after getting used to it she left the cabin. She looked for moss for it was said moss always grow facing north. Brittany started walking north to where her cabin was. She entered the five mile radius she set on her cabin. She stopped to inspect scratches on a tree. Suddenly she heard growling looking around she spotted the same wolf she assumed was Ariana. Ariana sprang at Brittany. Quickly Brittany stopped her with a hard kick at her chest and it sent Ariana back into a tree. Ariana crumbled unconscious. Brittany picked up Ariana and carried her to her cabin. At her cabin a figure jumped from the tree and stood in her way. Brittany wasn't shocked to see it was Luke. She noticed Luke's left arm was wrapped in a crude bandage. She glared at him and went into the cabin with Luke following behind.

Hours later Luke was finally asleep and drugged with something which Luke accepted in a drink of water. Brittany worked at his wound which was a bullet wound. She worked at getting the bullet out and cleaned his arm in case of infection and sewed it shut and wrapped it in a bandage. Then she put the bullet in a small sandwich bag. The bloody cloth, Brittany spent a while at her microscope doing blood tests. Then she took a sample of blood from both Ariana and Luke. During that time Ariana woke up and saw Brittany at her microscope with her back to Ariana. A powerful feeling of rage swelled up and Ariana charged at Brittany in her Human form, which whirled around and slapped Ariana hard in the face.

Ariana stepped back, with her hand on her face, and said "Brittany! First you kick me into a tree then you slap me? "

Brittany spoke "Sorry but doesn't attack defenses people it's not wolf like."

Ariana saw Luke lying on a couch. A blanket was on him and his left arm was in a sling. Nearby were piles of fur next to a shaver. Brittany had shaved the fur off Luke.

Ariana asked looking back at Brittany, "What's wrong with him?"

Brittany replied back "He has a bullet wound in his left arm. I took the bullet out and sewed the wound and wrapped it in bandages. It's interfering with his skin walking abilities."

Ariana spoke "Oh that must have hurt."

Then she groaned and felt her head. Brittany got up from the stool and helped Ariana to another couch and gave her a blanket to sleep with. Turning off the lights Brittany went to her bedroom that was on the loft to sleep. She was very tired. Outside it was nighttime. The stars shined and the moon glowed. Somewhere wolf howls were heard calling to each other.

Morning came as the sun peeked over the horizon shining on the Morgan Mansion. The pool house was silent with yellow police ribbons surrounding it looking dark and gloomy. In the kitchen of the mansion sat Mark. He was drinking coffee and was trying not to nod off. The ride back to Port Monaco late that night, made him so tired, when he arrived home. The phone rang once but Mark ignored it.

It rang and rang three times before Mark grabbed the phone and spoke "Hello?"

Detective Wilson spoke "This is Detective Wilson. Lab analysis on blood found near Joe Cooper a survivor of a wolf attack was tested and it came out positive identifying Luke Morgan. "

Mark spoke "What?"

A bit later of talking to Detective Wilson he hung up and immediately dialed to Serena. She answered the phone rudely.

Mark spoke "Hello Serena its Mark."

Serena spoke "Ex husband Mark I'm divorcing you cause of this stupid fight and trouble."

Before he could protest Serena hung up. Dazed Mark hung up the phone.

His world was crashing; because of the fight with Luke, his wife was divorcing him. Angrily Mark slammed his fist on the table and cursed out loud "If I ever seen Luke again, I'll shoot him dead."

It was a bit early in the morning when Brittany got up. She showered and put on jeans, hiking boots and a green plaid long sleeved shirt. Then she went to the living room of the cabin. Luke was awake on the couch while Ariana still slept.

Brittany spoke " Hi Luke you hungry?"

Luke frowned and shook his head no. Brittany went into the kitchen unit when the radio gave out a voice of static.

Grabbing the radio, Brittany Spoke "Hello?"

A familiar voice on it said "It's Mark. Brittany is that you?"

Brittany laughed and said "Yes baby brother it's your big sister."

Mark spoke "Listen Luke's is a crazy manic going around in fur and some natives want him dead because he's a skin walker."

Pretending to be shocked Brittany exclaimed "What, that is absurd but I'm interested."

Mark protested "It's not crazy! Besides my wife said she'll divorce me and get custody of our kid."

Brittany spoke "Oh I'm sorry-"

Mark interrupted her "When I get my hands on Luke I'll kill him."

Then the radio went silent on Brittany. Brittany stared at the radio in hand and put it back in its hook. Then she went to eat breakfast.

In the Morgan Mansion Mark glared at the photograph of him and his twin brother. Both were mirror images in the face, Mark in the picture had a short sleeved white rugby shirt with tan pants. Luke had on a short sleeved blue shirt with blue jeans except he was bigger and thicker than Mark who was thin and looked smaller. Mark threw the picture in the trash and stomped to the basement door that was next to the kitchen door to outside. He went down the basement steps turning on the lights as he walked down. The basement was cold and the light cast spooky shadows. Mark reached a pile and started throwing things around. Then he yanked out his father's long gun and inspected it. Four bullets were still in the barrel of the gun.

Mark spoke "This gun father will end the life of the skin walkers with its servant Luke."

Then gun in hand he went upstairs and spent awhile cleaning it.

Chapter Sixteen

In Wolfville, Uncle Belen breathed with a sigh of relief. His son Jared was going to be okay. He recalled what Mary Snake told the police with Belen in range listening. She said she was walking to camp where Jared set up when she heard him scream. Running to the camp area she saw a dead wolf lying next to Jared and wolf was there near him. The wolf looked up in another direction. Mary also said she stepped back and snapped a twig and the wolf ran in her direction. She thought he was going to get her then she ran screaming to Belen Morgan and his nephew.

"Thank the One." Belen said to self at the hospital.

Then he entered the room where Jared lay. He found his son awake with Mary next to him in a seat holding his hand. She brushed a lock of her dark hair from her tan skin.

Uncle Belen spoke in a foreign language "Hi how are you doing son?"

Jared replied "I'm okay and I should thank Luke."

Mary added "And me. Don't forget me."

Jared smiled a bit then went to sleep. Sighing Uncle Belen sat in a chair and slept him self as Mary snoozed with her arms around Jared.

In Port Monaco, Detective Wilson and several officers drove their cars to the Morgan mansion. Mark had called them and told Detective Wilson that Brittany called him on the radio earlier from her cabin. Detective Wilson arrived with several officers in time to see Mark leave the house with gun in hand.

Detective Wilson called "Mr. Morgan! Your gun will be taken to clear it."

Mark didn't say a word but handed his gun to the Detective who handed it to one of the officers who took it to the car and locked the gun in the trunk.

Mark spoke "I'm going to Brittany's cabin and besides what gave you the notion of me going on a hunt? It's to protect myself."

Detective Wilson ordered "Move and lead."

Mark turned and led the group into the forest. It took awhile to get there. When the party reached the cabin Mark knocked on the door. Inside Brittany went to answer the knock. She opened the door a crack and saw Mark then she slid herself out.

Mark spoke " Hi big sister where's Luke?"

Brittany spoke "He's in my cabin and I don't think he'll be pleased to see you because of what happened the other night."

She opened the door a bit then said "I better warn you but Luke has been suffering a gunshot wound and it made him like a maniac."

Brittany opened the door wider. Inside Ariana sat clothe in a pair of white sweat pants and shirt on the couch. Next to her was Luke who was awake with his arm in a sling. He had blue jeans on but no shirt and he sat glaring. Detective Wilson and Mark walked in. Luke glared and growled in his throat. Ariana kept an arm around him.

Detective Wilson ordered "Get these two in a hospital and tests to be done."

Officers immediately put Luke on a stretcher and took him into a waiting ambulance at the Morgan house with Ariana following behind escorted by Brittany and a grumbling Mark.

The police department questioned Brittany and Ariana a lot of times. Finally Mark was allowed to go home. As the patrol car pulled up the drive Serena was there. Mark bid good bye to Detective Wilson. Wilson left as Mark walked to his wife.

Mark asked "What are you doing here?"

Serena said "I just got out of the hospital three days ago to see if the baby is fine."

Mark frowned and said "Why are you telling me this?"

Serena answered "When I visited my parents they gave me Claire and they wanted us to keep her as ours."

She bent down to pick up a bundle on the seat and held it. Mark came forward to look. The bundle was a baby girl.

Mark spoke "Whose kid is she?"

Serena spoke "She belonged to my biological sister who I have never met. She is said to die after giving birth to Claire."

She paused and said " I was going to divorce you but I couldn't I just couldn't do this to our baby."

She began to weep that she handed Claire to Mark and ran inside. Mark sighed and carried the baby Claire inside. The sun of the afternoon came and went down to meet the horizon.

Later late at night the phone ran. Mark who was sleeping alone turned the light on and answered the phone from the couch in the living room.

"Hello, Mark Morgan here" he spoke.

It was Detective Wilson. He spoke" Mr. Morgan after Luke and Ariana was sent in the hospital. Tests were done and the results came out strange."

Mark asked "What's odd about it?"

Wilson replied "Wolf DNA in their blood. The doctors suggested you and wife come to the hospital for tests immediately."

Mark spoke "OK I'll be there as soon as I can"

Then they both hung up. Mark got up from the couch clad into jeans and a white long sleeved shirt. He left the couch to see Serena holding Claire with a questioningly look on her face at the top of the stairs.

Mark spoke "That was the hospital, their tests indicate wolf DNA in the blood of my brother and Ariana. They want us both there for further testing."

He escorted a silent Serena to his car and drove them to the hospital. At the hospital tests began on Mark and Serena as they entered the hospital. An hour later Mark was pacing in the lounge. He was waiting for the results. His wife Serena sat sleeping. Claire was in her lap in a pink blanket. It had been nearly an hour since they were tested.

Mark thought "I'll clobber my brother if I have wolf DNA in me."

He leaned against the wall with his back against it.

Serena woke up and said "Mark do you mind? I'm trying to sleep and your keeping me up with your pacing."

Mark rolled his eyes and sat down next to his wife. She sighed and put her head on his shoulder. The baby Claire slept in peacefully dreaming.

The door of the room opened as Mark looked up to face a man about his age with some tired look under his eyes, Doctor Zesky the Morgan family physician.

Mark spoke "Hello Doctor, I'm Mark."

He gestured to his wife. "This is Serena my wife and her niece Claire and Serena is expecting a baby."

The doctor looked surprised.

He spoke "Expecting a baby? I think babies would be more like it. Mrs. Morgan was operated due to pain of a fertilized egg in her left fallopian tube. She's still pregnant with your child, a situation we're monitoring."

He paused and spoke "The baby Claire is okay."

Mark turned and glared at his wife who said "I'm sorry! I'm sorry for not telling you the truth."

The doctor spoke "Tests indicated that the wolf DNA has affected Luke, Ariana, Brittany and you, Mr. Morgan."

Mark spoke "What? How did I get wolf DNA?'"

Doctor Zesky spoke calmly "The wolf blood or DNA is skin walking ability is heredity, which means from your mother Cheyenne Wolf."

Mark stared then he rolled his eyes and fainted away and caught himself onto a chair.

She asked the doctor "Have you figured out that the people who claim to be my parents, last name Snake are my real parents?"

Dr. Zesky shivered speaking "The tests on you and them came out positive. You're Lisa Snake. The child Claire belongs to the eldest Katie who is presumed dead. You have a younger sister who's name is Mary."

Then he turned and left the room.

Morning shined through the room where Luke and Ariana slept in beds side by side. Mark woke up in a hospital bed across from Luke. Serena was sitting in a chair holding Claire. Mark could see she was crying a bit.

Mark spoke "Serena? What's wrong?"

Serena looked up and said "I'm sorry but I'm upset that I never got a chance to meet Katie, Claire's mom, my older sister. I managed to meet Mary who's younger than me."

Mark got up and found he was still wearing his clothes from last night. He looked around and noticed his brother sleeping. Ariana was sleeping too.

Mark glared then he spoke "What the heck were you doing? How could you trick me?"

Serena gasped at the accusation as she stood up angrily saying "Trick you? What are you talking about?"

Mark replied "What I'm talking about is that you were after the money and the Morgan estate." Serena yelled "Mark how you could accuse me of this?"

Mark put a finger on his lips and closed the door then he spoke "I want you and Claire to get away from here. It's not safe with a skin walker after me and you as well"

He paused and said "I'm making this getaway like an argument."

He stopped talking and looked at his wife Serena.

She nodded her head yes and gave him a kiss on the cheek and then went to the door as she opened it she yelled "You give me that wild accusation again! I divorce you so I'm going to visit relatives and to cool down! good bye!"

She left without closing the door. Mark put his hands in his pockets and left the room closing the door in time for he could hear growls from Luke. Mark left the hospital and went home.

Some time late in the afternoon, the sun was low in the sky as Mark drove into the driveway. Brittany came running to meet him, with worry on her face.

She spoke "Mark! Where have you been? By the One! You're ok!"

Mark stared and said "What's going on?"

Brittany spoke "Luke escaped from the hospital acting like a wild animal. He went nuts and escaped with police on his trail but he eluded them."

Mark grumbled "Damn skin walkers. When did Luke escape? "

Brittany replied "Come inside."

She dragged him inside yanking on his shirt. Inside she told him "Two hours ago I got a phone call from Wilson, who told me that Luke escaped by the fire escape. He was seen running as a wolf."

She quickly added "Where have you been? You didn't answer my calls so I was beginning to worry."

Mark spoke "I've been up in the hospital for tests and came out positive like you for wolf DNA." He left the kitchen and went upstairs. Brittany took the phone off the hook and dialed a number. Moments she spoke " Brittany Morgan, Mark is here somewhere in the house and he is fine."

After a few moments she spoke "What?"

Then she hanged up and wrote a note and left the house. She drove away in Luke's jeep. Up stairs Mark saw his sister enter Luke's jeep and drive away. Mark went down stairs and spied a note on the table. It was scrawled:

"Mark, I'm out to the police headquarters. Detective Wilson said he had some thing that my experience of the field needs to check.

Brittany"

Mark sighed and went to the fire place and touched a hidden switch and the fireplace opened like a door. Mark crawled inside. Unseen a wolf with red eyes followed him in before the fireplace closed.

Chapter Seventeen

Luke ran hard as he could in his wolf form through the forest. The gut feeling that his brother was in trouble was strong. He had to get to his brother before the skin walker tried to kill Mark. The house loomed in view. The sky had grown dark. Luke ran to the front door changing his form to human and charged through it opening it. He ran to the fireplace while hearing screams. With a growl he forced the wall to open as Mark came out screaming.

He saw Luke and yelled "Get that wolf away! It's the skin walker."

With a roar Luke ran inside. There were sounds of snarling and struggle then was silence. Luke came out dragging the wolf.

Mark spoke in gasps "Since when did you start saving my neck?"

Luke spoke "Since we could walk. I've been saving your neck from accidents my whole life." Finally Mark got up and said "Lab results on me and Lisa Snake found wolf DNA on you, Ariana and Brittany."

Luke nodded and spoke "Where did that wolf go? I killed it!"

Luke kneeled his temper forming in anger as he changed his form to wolf.

Outside Brittany arrived with several officers including Coyote Wilson. Mark came running out the front through the back door as a wolf came out of the bushes charging at him.

Mark kicked it and ran but the wolf followed him towards Brittany and several officers yelling "Help! There's a wolf after me!"

To Brittany's horror, Mark fell to the ground and saw the wolf standing over Mark growling. Then she heard a gun shot and saw Coyote Wilson's gun was smoking as the wolf fell to the ground dead. Mark heard his sister call his name.

She yelled "Mark, you alright?"

Mark called back as he got up and leaned against the bushes "I'm fine. Luke saved my neck from another wolf, but it got away."

A hand from the bushes grabbed Mark and a gun poked in his back.

A voice spoke "Don't move or I'll give you a bullet."

It was Lisa Snake. Mark asked "Serena? Lisa? What are you doing?"

Serena spoke "Quiet. Mark! "

A car came in the drive. It was Detective. Wilson and two officers. One of the officers got out and pulled out a glaring woman handcuffed.

Detective Wilson shouted "Lisa, meet you supposedly deceased sister, Katie Snake."

Serena saw her and yelled "What foul play is that?"

Brittany who was trying to distract Serena noticed Luke behind who suddenly aimed the gun at Brittany. Luke found his moment and attacked Serena. With a karate kick he knocked the gun out of her hand and pinned her arms.

Luke spoke "Katie Snake is the one responsible for shooting Officers Cox and Leah dead."

Mark asked "What? How the heck did you know that?"

Luke replied "After I ran off with Brittany, Ariana stayed behind and told me she saw Katie Snake shoot the officers Cox and Leah with a silencer gun."

Detective Wilson spoke "So that's why Cox and Leah had bullets in them."

Some officers came and handcuffed Lisa and put her in the patrol car with Katie. Lisa glared at Katie and they were soon arguing. Other officers were looking for the wolf with the bullet wound. It was found in the bushes barely alive. Brittany helped with care to check its injuries. The wolf growled when it saw Mark. Luke growled back to shut it up. With teamwork the wolf was set in a borrowed truck and rushed to the vet with Brittany observing. Detective Wilson and the remaining officers took statements from Luke and Mark before leaving. It was getting dark so Mark went inside but Luke stayed out side on guard.

Morning sunshine woke Mark who was on his bed sleeping. He was still wearing the clothes when the wolves attacked him. He got up and stretched then grabbed some clothes and went to the bathroom that adjoined his room and Luke's to shower and change. Awhile later Mark dressed in a red t-shirt and tan pants with sneakers went downstairs to the kitchen. In the kitchen Mark heard yells from the basement. Curious Mark went to the basement door and went downstairs. Luke was there practicing some boxing from a corner of the mess of boxes. Mark observed Luke was wearing white pants with a black belt around it. Mark stood and watched his brother practice. Luke turned around and saw Mark. He stopped practicing.

Mark spoke "Good Morning, Luke. Can you uh be a little quieter? "

He paused and continued "I can hear you yelling from upstairs in the kitchen."

Luke nodded and resumed practicing. Mark sighed and went back upstairs. He prepared himself a breakfast of cereal and was reading the newspaper when Luke came up from the basement. Luke walked in the kitchen with a stone expression on his face. Without a word he walked out side slamming the screen door with a bang. The noise made Mark nearly jump out of his seat.

A car came into the drive. Luke looked to see who it was as Mark came outside. When the car stopped Ariana came out of the driver's seat and ran into the arms of Luke with Brittany trailed behind carrying Claire. She walked up to Mark and handed the baby to him.

Brittany said "I don't think you can get out of this. Katie handed her to Lisa who handed Claire to you officially."

Laughing she went inside. Mark looked down at Claire. With a sigh he turned to follow Brittany when he noticed Luke and Ariana were mouth kissing. Groaning he went inside. Inside he went upstairs to the room that was set up as a nursery. The front door slammed and Mark went to the living room. Brittany was there talking to Ariana. Luke was in a chair frowning.

Brittany noticed Luke because she said "Somebody should check on Claire."

She pushed Ariana up the stairs.

Mark blurted out "Any plans for a family?"

Luke answered "Yeah. Ariana is pregnant."

Shocked Mark stared at him and said "Uh Ser. no Lisa is expecting too and it's mine."

Luke asked "So what are you going to do about the baby?"

Mark replied "Nothing just wait and see for the courts to decide."

He sat down next to Luke and spoke "This is exactly what Mom predicted before death."

Mark sobbed, Luke went to comfort him. Upstairs in the nursery the girls were talking.

Ariana spoke "Can you believe this? A lunatic like Lisa handed her sister's baby to Mark! "

Brittany rebelled "Maybe deep down her liked Mark and gave her kid to him."

Ariana frowned "I'm pregnant."

Brittany asked "When is the due date?"

Ariana answered "The due date is in tentative. The doctors have been talking about taking the baby out as soon as early December, but as soon the baby is born the doctors might take it away because they think Luke and I aren't well enough to take care of kids are selves cause of our nature."

Brittany hugged her and then she said "Did you tell the doctors that you and Luke will raise the kid themselves with only help?"

Ariana replied "Yes they agreed to help us rise the kid what ever sex it is."

Chapter Eighteen

Somewhere in a local hospital Jared lay on a bed. Mary Snake his girlfriend stayed by his side. Jared was slowly waking up. He noticed Mary.

He asked "Mary is my father here?"

Mary spoke "He is out side in the hallway waiting."

Jared spoke "I want to talk to him alone about some thing."

Mary gave him a small smile and left the room. Uncle Belen his father came in and closed the door. Uncle Belen got himself a seat staring at his son.

Jared spoke "Dad, I was trying to make a fire. I saw a wolf it acted like it was sick like rabies. I saw a woman who I recognized to be Katie Snake, Mary's sister in the shadows. She made a sound and the wolf attacked me. I put up my arms to block the attack. The wolf bit my arms. Luke came running from a wolf form and he took the wolf off my back and killed it snapping its neck. I saw Mary in the shadows. It was dark and she must have thought Luke killed me because I looked dead. Mary stepped on a twig and ran Luke followed her. After Luke ran off Katie had a gun in hand and it fired hitting me but I faked dead, and she walked away."

Jared paused.

Uncle Belen spoke "Continue. What Happened?"

Jared spoke "Um some man who said his name was Wind in his Hair helped me and he left me at hospital. Except one thing he appeared out of nowhere and disappeared the same way."

Uncle Belen spoke "I believe he was an ancestor of a family from the past. Rest, I'll tell the statement to the police department."

Uncle Belen got up from his seat and walked out of the room. Jared yawned and went to sleep.

In Port Monaco Detective Wilson was writing reports when the phone rang. He spilled his coffee cup again.

"Damn it!" He yelled.

He grabbed the phone saying "Yes, Detective Douglas Wilson here."

It was Uncle Belen who told the statement from Jared to Detective Wilson who immediately after pausing he hung up and darted out of his office.

"Coyote!" He called "Son! Get the car! We're driving to Wolfville! "

His son Coyote grabbed the keys and ran out side. He had the car on and was in the driver's seat waiting for his father. Detective Wilson got in and the car roared away.

Chapter nineteen

Mark came out of the town court house glumly musing over what happened. Katie Snake was found guilty of murdering two officers and her child Claire was under custody to Mark. Lisa Snake was found not guilty but she filed for divorce and custody for her unborn child. There was another problem, an Asylum called Zesky in the town of Tamkan, filed a case that Luke and Ariana should be in asylum. At the court, Mark remembered testified that Luke had saved his life. Jared came from Wolfville to tell his story. The prosecutor even made Jared admit that Luke acted like a wild animal when he saved his life. Brittany testified with evidence that the prosecutor found some flaws. The jury agreed with the prosecutor and the defense lost. Mark asked if visitors were allowed, but he was told that contact from the outside world was not allowed. Mark felt part of him was torn when Luke was taken away. After the case was over Mark went home with Brittany. At home in the Morgan mansion Mark sat on the couch thinking about the court case when the phone rang and Mark answered it.

He heard Lisa's voice on the line speaking "I don't care what that kid Claire and the baby is a Snake not a Wolf and you'll be hearing from me."

She hung up. Mark rolled his eyes and hung up the phone.

Halloween pass with the following months and their holidays as Thanksgiving pass in November now it December. Christmas was coming. It wasn't the same celebrating holidays without Luke. Sadly Mark sat in a chair looking out the window. It was cold in December with some snow on the ground. The Morgan family Mark and Brittany celebrated a family holiday themselves. It wasn't fun without Luke around to tell his jokes. Mark sighed remembering the good times he had with Luke. His sister Brittany came in the living room. She pulled out a chair and sat next to Mark. Out side was snowing. The lawn was covered with white snow.

Mark spoke "I miss him. I miss the times on the day every year we go out and play in the snow playing games. "

Brittany spoke "You're not the only one who misses him. I got a call from the asylum. They said Ariana already had her baby and it's a girl named Cheyenne. I asked how Luke is doing. They said he is doing his best to be the best father as he can for Ariana's baby."

Mark frowned and said "Wait a minute! If Ariana had her kid out this month which means Lisa will have my child soon."

Brittany put a hand on his shoulder.

She spoke "Lisa already had her baby awhile ago. It's a boy born premature. The doctors have not seen Lisa after giving birth. They think she went home, but I think she is out here in this area."

Mark looked at his sister and said "Let's hope she is not at your cabin hiding."

Brittany laughed and said "Very funny! I boarded the cabin and the cabin is bare so if she gets in she can't survive there. As for the pool house, I boarded it up under lock and key."

Mark nodded and went to the kitchen. Brittany followed him.

Far in the forest in an old forgotten cabin sitting next to a fire was Lisa Snake. She had on black pants and black turtleneck. She held a photograph of Mark and her at their honey moon. Mark had his arm around her and he was wearing white shorts and white shirt. Lisa in the picture had a pink sundress.

Lisa glared at the photograph and said "I'll kill you for you have no honor among us."

Angrily she tore the picture in half and threw it in the fire. Then she picked up a hand gun and was loading it with bullets. The only noises were the sounds of wolf howling out side and the crackle of the fire as the picture burned including the sound of a gun being loaded.

Chapter Twenty

At the asylum it was a like a large house but inside was like a hospital. The walls were white and the rooms were black with the windows covered. In one of the rooms Luke sat on the hard floor. The room had a sink and a private toilet including a bed. Luke was silent thinking of ways to escape. He knew escape was possible but Ariana needed him to help her take care of the demanding baby.

He sighed thinking "Yes the baby."

Luke remembered the asylum doctors arranged for Ariana to have the baby at a local hospital. They weren't sure how the baby will be okay or not so they decide to get it out quickly before any problems would arise.

"Man" He spoke "Why do doctors think of this crap? What's their problem?"

Angrily he banged his fist on the floor. The sound echoed through the room. Pain was creeping in his hand but Luke didn't care. All he was thinking about was his brother Mark. Mark was in danger for Lisa could try another murderous attempt when she had the chance.

Luke yelled "Damn life isn't fair!"

The door of his room unlocked and opened. It was one of the male orderlies holding a dart gun who said "Luke you have a visitor today. It's the same wolf you gave an injury to."

Two men came in dragging a cage and they left the room with the nurse who locked the door. Luke looked at the wolf in the cage and saw that it had a note rolled up and tied on the front paws. Luke untied the note from the paw and unrolled it.

It said "Your twin brother Mark has broken his word not to use a gun. He shot my sick wolf friend. So he must die by a gun. Lisa Snake"

In anger Luke crumpled the note and threw it at the wall he howled in frustration.

He spoke "Damn. That's why the wolf attacked him. When I get my chance I'll escape and confront him of this. "

He got up and shoved the wolf cage to a corner then he stretched and was practicing boxing moves while changing his form. Slowly an idea came to Luke as he put his plan in motion and escaped. He hid himself secretly in a laundry cart full of sheets that were sent to a washer mat. The cart was carted out to a truck. The truck started and drove on and on. Awhile later the truck got a flat tire and stopped. Luke peered out of the cart as he saw the door, opened the truck door and looked around. They were on an old road with forests at the side. With instinct of a wolf Luke darted out of the truck and ran into the forests in his wolf form. It was a cold snowy night. The ground was covered with snow. Luke ran in the dark. He ran toward the direction where the Morgan house lay. Soon he passed Brittany's cabin. At the Morgan home the news of Luke's escape spread and Brittany and Mark learned of this from a call from Detective Wilson. Police officers arrived and started asking Mark and Brittany hundreds of questions. It was past nine pm when the last officer left. The two sat silent in the TV room thinking. Brittany got up and stretched.

She spoke wearily "I'm going upstairs to read and maybe sleep."

She walked out of the foyer then went up the stairs to her room across the hall from Luke's room. Mark got up and went up the stairs to his room.

Brittany was sitting on her bed reading. She was still wearing her clothes blue jeans, red plaid shirt over a white turtleneck and no shoes on. Suddenly the lights went out. Brittany put down her book and went to the window. The pool house lights were on. She saw a figure in white running across the lawn from the forest. She gasped from it was Luke. Without hesitating Brittany knew Lisa was in the house somewhere. Quietly Brittany groped for the doorknob and found it. She edged the door open and listened. There was silence. Slowly she edged herself to the stairs, and then she darted to Mark's room across the hall.

Opening the door she called softly "Mark? It's Brittany."

The door opened and Mark dragged her in. Mark locked the door and locked his door to the adjoining bathroom. He went to the closet and pulled out his baseball bat and positioned himself near the door. Brittany darted behind the door and stuck her ear on it listening.

Downstairs Lisa entered the kitchen gun in hand with night vision goggles. She moved quickly and quietly looking in each room on the first floor. When she opened the basement door something lunged at her. She shot it with a silencer. She saw it was an old wolf. Lisa bent to inspect it. At that moment Luke entered the house and into the kitchen. He saw Lisa and she spun around. He pushed her into the basement and closed the door then he ran to the stairs. Lisa recovered and started shooting her gun where he was before. Luke ducked into his room and locked the door. He entered Mark's room from the bathroom by knocking a secret knock on the door to the bathroom. His brother Mark and his sister Brittany was there.

Brittany whispered "Luke what's going on there?"

Luke gave her a piece of paper. Under the light from a low beam flashlight Brittany read it. Then she handed it to Mark who did the same. The door to Mark's room was kicked open as Lisa Snake barged in. Luke kicked the gun out of her hands and slammed her against a wall. She sat in recovering from the blow.

Mark yelled "Lisa Snake are you nuts?"

Lisa spoke angrily "Family honor never use a gun on wolves, which you broke. I saw you shoot a wolf the one Luke and Ariana found."

Luke grumbled "I'm going to turn the power back on"

He let the room. Mark glared at Lisa as glared at him. Brittany got some rope and tied Lisa up and took her down to the kitchen.

Chapter Twenty one

At the police precinct where Detective Wilson worked was busy with activity. A phone rang loudly, startling them.

An Officer picked it up and spoke "Yes?"

Then he yelled "It's the Morgans! Lisa Snake tried to kill them and Luke is at the Morgan home!"

Several officers ran out as Detective Wilson came behind them with his son Coyote.

Down stairs in the basement at the Morgan home Luke turned the power back on. He went to the sun room to sit down and thinking as he heard a knock at the door. Luke looked and saw Uncle Belen. Luke opened the door as Uncle Belen handed him a tan leather jacket and boots.

Then he said "Come Luke I want to talk to you about some thing."

Luke hurriedly put on the boots and the long jacket. Curious Luke followed his Uncle out the door into the snowy yard.

The police officers arrived in a matter of minutes. Brittany was in the kitchen, sitting in a chair was Lisa tied up. Mark was looking out the kitchen window over the yard.

He spoke "Hey is that Luke and Uncle Belen?"

Detective Wilson answered his question "Mr. Morgan I'm sorry but he was found murdered apparently by Lisa Snake according to her note left at the scene. She also tried to get Jared but he escaped unharmed."

Brittany spoke "I'm going outside maybe that wasn't Belen, Mark saw."

Without waiting Brittany grabbed her coat and darted out side with Officer Coyote Wilson followed along.

Detective Wilson sat down in a chair next to Mark.

He spoke "Your brother escaped."

Mark spoke "I know, he must have a six sense that he knew I was in trouble and he came to save me again, that I don't know how many times he saved me all my life that I forgot to count."

Detective Wilson spoke to two officers Vega and Lin. They went out side.

Outside Brittany was inspecting footprints on the ground with Wilson observing. Two officers came out. Brittany spoke "Careful! Don't walk on the prints."

Then she added "I know these prints their Luke and a humanoid wolf the skin walker."

Officer Lin spoke "skin walker? I heard about that legend, but I don't believe it."

Officer Vega spoke "Lin!"

Lin spoke "The weirdest thing in Wolfville was Uncle Belen was found dead but I could have sworn I saw him leave the cabin into thin air!"

Brittany spoke "You're talking about the skin walker who is Belen Morgan the one responsible for giving Cox and Leah bite wounds and the attempt murders on Jared, Mary and Joe Cooper." Officer Lin spoke "I'm going inside to tell Detective Wilson this."

Officer Vega wandered over to another officer.

Brittany added to Coyote Wilson, "The only one who can shoot the skin walker dead without the curse passing, is you, Coyote."

Officer Wilson believing her asked " Why me?"

Brittany replied "My family can't fire on wolves or the skin walker will come to the family that carries the curse. So someone whose said to be destined the Hunter, doesn't have the curse can." Officer Wilson immediately loaded his gun with bullets and stood watching as she inspected the clues on the ground.

In the forest watching was Uncle Belen and Luke.

Luke broke the silence by saying "What do you want skin walker?"

Uncle Belen replied "Nothing but I need to tell you this. The skin walker wolf curse has been in our family since I shot a wolf. Your mother's last name which is Wolf has been in our family for generations. To stop this curse some one will have to shoot me dead and Lisa and your brother have to shoot each other dead. "

He paused and spoke "You know that promise not to shot a gun for if you do you have to shoot your self dead?"

Luke answered "Yes."

Uncle Belen spoke "What I mean is myself, Lisa and Mark has to die by gun at a full moon just to prevent the curse from being fulfilled."

Luke nodded and looked back he spoke "I've to get back to the house."

As he ran off Uncle Belen Looked at the moon and said while feeling rage come onto him, "Dear by the One, It is happening again."

Luke ran out of the forest to the house as his sister saw him.

"Luke" She yelled "Your back! Get inside! "

Luke ran inside as Brittany stayed outside.

They noticed Lisa untied her self but still sat in her chair. Mark was about to say some thing when gunshots were heard. Lisa rushed out side with her gun in hand. Luke followed with Mark who also picked up a gun in hand. In the yard lying on the ground was a wolf. Its figures were like Uncle Belen's. Officer Wilson's gun was smoking.

He spoke "If you burn the bodies of this one and his victims, there won't be a skin walker for a long time."

Enraged Lisa aimed her gun at Officer Wilson and fired. The bullet nicked his shoulder which he staggered. Mark darted between Wilson and Lisa. He aimed his gun at Lisa.

Mark spoke "You'll have to get me first!"

Lisa aimed her gun at him and then both guns fired. Mark's bullet hit Lisa in the heart killing her as she hit the ground. Her bullet hit him but he fell to the snowy ground with pain in his chest. Luke caught his brother and spoke "Don't worry your going to be fine. Whatever I said about believing in the legend must be false."

Mark groaned out "No it's true, and I'll be waiting you as your protector."

Saying this Luke felt his brother's soul leave the body. Luke held his brother's dead body and sobbed. Brittany kneeled next to him and gave Luke a comforting hand. Howls of wolves were heard calling for victory and mourning as the full moon shined.

Chapter twenty two

A week later in Port Monaco of despite the snowy weather of Christmas, the bodies of the two officers was being burned with the body of Uncle Belen. As for the bodies of Lisa and Mark they were being burned side by side along with the body of Katie who hanged herself in jail. Around the burning priers watching was Jared and his wife Mary. Detective Wilson and his son were there and along with Brittany holding Claire, Luke holding Lisa's son, Mark named after his father and besides him was Ariana holding her daughter, Cheyenne. In the shadow of the fire sat a wolf. Luke, Ariana and Brittany silently saw it. It bowed its head and the lift it to the moon and howled. It went away as howls came. As the embers of the flame on the charred bodies died then the wind picked up and blew away the ashes remains. A wolf howled and then was joined by other wolf howls.

Brittany paused from looking around the house. Timothy Jones Senior the family Lawyer stood next to her, a bald man in a tan suit.

He asked "You sure you want to sell the house?"

Brittany replied "I'm sure."

Timothy sighed and asked again "What happened to Luke? I haven't seen him around."

Brittany stared at space frowning as she replied "He's out and running around."

Timothy frowned and replied "Oh."

Brittany nodded. She looked around the house one last time then left. Timothy sighed as he watched her leave to her cabin in the forest. He left the house. He went to his car and saw a wolf standing in the outlines to the forest with another wolf and three cubs. He frowned. The eyes of one of the wolves reminded him of Luke. The wolves stood and then turned and left in the forest. Timothy shivered as he held out the form to the house and signed the name George Patricoly under "New Owner".

Then he went to the sale sign and put "Sold" on it. Sighing he went in the car and drove away.

Somewhere in the forest a wolf howled.

The End.
