 
Giovanni Maria Plasmati

THE WONDERFUL WOLRD OF IIANNG WILLIOT. VOL 2/5.

\- The bomb solar -

WARNING: This second book will help you see better what you saw in the first account

Copyright

This ebook is licensed for personal entertainment and can not be transferred or resold to other people. If you want to share this ebook with other people you must buy an additional copy. If you're reading this book and you have not purchased a copy procuratevene respectful of the law and the author's work.

I dedicate this book to fantasy mystery and wonder that is present in the human mind and, with his powers, is able to influence reality.

SUMMARY.

Chapter I: A small Arret.

Chapter II: The search for James Clancy

Chapter III: The trip to Accolville.

Chapter IV: The small increases.

Chapter V: Of the situation.

Chapter VI: Intelligence Arretiana center.

Chapter VII: The controls to the training center and the discovery of the theft to CRA
Chapter VIII: The little I hear.

Chapter IX: the destination of Malandah.

Chapter X: The P-gaming Eno.

Chapter XI: The telescope galactic Eno P-3 and planets prison.

Chapter XII: the strange policy of P-1 Eno.

Chapter XIII: Isabel and save!

Chapter XIV: The search for Malandah.

Chapter XV: The mysterious Watt-One.

Chapter XVI: The bomb exploded.

Chapter XVII: The end.

### CHAPTER I

### A SMALL ARRET.

The two binary stars were shining, as usual, rotating around each other in the sky of the small planet Arret. The rays of the only two heated and lit the futuristic cityscape made up of one thousand buildings in which predominated the huge metal ball, the seat of government buildings, and Council Integalattico, in which Ga-Serton pondered the reasons for the act of Malandah, one of the largest and most respected scientists Arret, unable to understand the reasons for the sudden madness.

Government building could be seen from the top of the Advanced Research Centre in which Jacqueline Nollah arretiana intelligence headquarters and engaged in the research of the scientist.

A great mystery of Malandah hovered on the gesture and the danger he had exposed the entire galactic community was not possible to dwell on the reasons which had led to such behavior: it was necessary to capture the scientist and to prevent the solar bomb exploded.

Meanwhile, from the huge metal ball could be seen not far from the Center for Advanced Research Center Educating arretiani. In it, as in the other seat of the Centre, located in the opposite hemisphere are trained and educated young people arretiani. These newborn were not removed from the natural parent and taken to the training center so that they could be trained culturally. Arret had long since decided not to grow new generations within families of origin, so as to ensure not only adequate training, not guaranteed by arretiani adults, all engaged in their various work activities, but also to ensure that all appropriate and equitable conditions for cultural growth for all. Necessary to avoid that particular intelligence or quality could be lost due to family circumstances and economic not happy: all the small arretiani should enjoy adequate training to enable teachers and trainers to identify the characteristics or peculiarities of small tasks and assign them to more appropriate to their nature, thereby ensuring adequate development to the community.

This structure, though seemingly harsh, he avoided not only corruption but also appropriate training to help their offspring. Best of all had to prevail over the good of themselves and their families and all this could be achieved only through a rigid structure like that of the training centers. The database of small arretiani, which had been kept secret and filed with the intelligence headquarters Arretiana: no one should know their offspring. In addition, access to the Training Centre was strictly prohibited and controlled by special machines scanning to record and ascertain who was entered.

It was precisely this rigid programming of life, as well as most of the time on speed, which had enabled the arretiana civilization to evolve much faster than that of Earth.

Inside the small arretiani asylum grew calm, already accustomed to that kind of life.

Within a few yards of the many boys played quietly in a game that was very similar to basketball, although enriched with futuristic elements: Magnetic gloves make it possible, by means of continuous magnetic pole reversals, to dribble and move the arm, pushing the ' index on the thumb threw the ball, after identifying the best time marked by the objective mobile place on special glasses. They had, in fact, inside a viewfinder and auto mobile and it was necessary to grasp an ideal time to identify the precise moment at which the canister was reported. With these technological systems also those less physically strong but able to seize the moment, they could play and be good players.

The kids enjoyed themselves in this game. Arret a little big-eyed look he preferred the view from the courtyard and could see his eyes dwelt much on the Advanced Research Center not far away.

Odo stared at the small path that separated him from the research center so that the games and the voices of small arretiani behind him did not seem to distract him.

The only two above Arret, continued to shine over the planet on a clear day and warm.

### CHAPTER II:

### RESEARCH OF JAMES CLANCY

The climate Arret was not very unlike that of Alibah Sinab they were in James, and the small Ala, Zilù. James, after the adventure shared with the small Zilù, wanted to keep him when they worked for Accommodation, although he could not talk to him the adventure was spent happy to see him from time to time. Ala and James for the many work commitments had not planned for now to have a baby and the company's small Zilù made their home more lively.

Lately, however, James is often locked up in the basement to study on a secret project in Ala knew nothing, and on which James does not say a word. All this sad Ala, although he was aware for the same work he did, that some circumstances very often could not be disclosed even to family members. The isolation of James and his continuing to be lost in thought, however, is worried that the small Ala Zilù.

James was alone in his cellar, scruffy as ever and with his eyes fixed on maps interstellar.

\- But where it can be gone! - Muttered scratching his head - and hurt both him and his dragon .... It is unthinkable that may have removed a lot. Here is the system of P-Eno - said, pointing to a spot on the map - but it's far from Earth. Perhaps traveling at saving the small spacecraft could get there but take a long time and could bleed to death or infection -.

James rose from his chair and walking nervously up and down the room thinking aloud confusedly until his eyes saw that the tavern clock marked the time for lunch.

\- Wow! I promised you that the wing was close ... It's already lunch time and I have not accomplished anything even today - and sadly, after having closed the door of the basement, climbed the short flight of stairs leading into the lounge.

\- At last we meet again - said Ala reappear as soon as she saw James in the house - Zilù Today there is also dining with us! -.

\- Oh! - Said, stopping to scratch his head and looking Zilù and Ala, as if you were aware of their presence only then - Excuse me! But this case ... -.

\- Mr James you are very thoughtful - he said Zilù silent observer - You see very well that is a complex case to which you have not found solution -.

James was surprised at the correct point made by small Zilù and watched in silence as he restored, before sitting down at the table.

Then, as soon as he left the thoughts and took notice of the situation, saw the face of Ala sad and decided to involve a bit without letting her know nothing of what it was, because Ala had manifested an excellent student of the course of international espionage and His advice could have been valuable in illuminate.

\- Ala maybe I need your advice - he said pretending to be engaged to rearrange the cutlery on the table - a hand ... to the solution of my case -.

\- You finally noticed me! - Said Ala watching James sat at the table with the little Zilù - We live under the same roof for a while and lately you've noticed that we act as if we lived a thousand miles away -.

\- Sometimes I do not understand - he said sadly - but we know I can not tell what it is. Seek to represent a similar situation to understand how you behave, how to fix it ... - he said pausing and making several breaks.

\- We hear! - Ala said, after bringing the food to the table.

\- Where can a sought refuge Interplan ... um ... international wounded and hunted? -.

\- Well, the closest place where they can medicate without attracting attention and then set off a safer place and hidden - Ala answered without thinking twice - but this research and where it is mainly because it wanted? -.

\- Um ... It comes from far away ... ahem ... was wounded here with us and with it a very dangerous weapon. A weapon that absolutely must be recovered -.

\- The James case is intriguing, but may be able to know it's not really useful if you do not understand where it comes from and what places near you. With the generic elements that I've provided, I can not tell you anything -.

\- The lady is right wing! - Zilù said that until then had been silent to listen.

\- Now you too will it take you! - James said he started repenting of the discussion and not knowing how to get out.

\- According to recent studies, many researchers tend to return to the places from which they fled, as places are usually kept under control - Ala said before getting up from the table and sad return to his services, knowing that James would not have said another.

James, saw Ala get sad, but what he said led him to think again and after a while he rose from the table and scratched his head again was heading towards the basement when he heard himself called by Ala.

\- James, you need a little distraction - she said, almost crying, before walking away with Zilù - no longer you! You could go to find Iianng and talk to him it seems to be aware of your secret -.

James paused to observe Ala leave from his presence, and after becoming aware of the state in which it was looking at the mirror in front of them had decided to follow the advice of Ala.

\- The trip will help me. Right wing, no longer seems to me. ... Then I will have to speak with the possible return of Iianng Malandah to Arret -.

The journey to the old Accolville, to the places of childhood was about to begin.

### CHAPTER III:

### JOURNEY TO ACCOLVILLE.

The journey takes a lot of stress Accolville James. The return of real places where he spent his childhood made him happy even though his parents were gone, and many friends had found jobs outside.

Reached Accolville James stopped to admire the small town and breathe the fresh air. Not much had changed since the last time you had been. The passing of time slower than the vast metropolis of Alibah Sinab served to James to find her inner balance and a bit of freshness of mind before going back to the hard work of finding Malandah.

\- This is the old house Iianng! - Said after a short trip - so many memories ... -.

His thoughts stopped when he saw the door of the house out Iianng Willior senior, now elderly and retired. James got up her coat collar hid behind the tree to avoid being seen as every time he spoke with him he felt a deep sorrow for the loss of his son, recently exacerbated by the fact that he was left alone after the death of his Elizabeteh wife.

\- Poor man! - Said as she walked away still looking for their usual walk in the way - He had an image of hard man and without fear when I was little and now I feel all the fragility and solitude - and repaired after the wind blew, he looked up to the window of the nearby apartment where his old friend staying Iianng and saw the windows closed. The door was open and he climbed, James strangely failed to notice the commotion that Dad, a neighbor Iianng he had done.

\- I would not have imagined that the weather could also make it more mature people like Dad! - He said to himself as he reached the apartment of his friend.

After knocking several times without anyone answering, James decided to enter using the supplied to him by the Intelligence passpartotut Arret: it was a tool to open any door, even that of a safe.

The interior of the apartment was dark and confused as usual for the blinds drawn. Suddenly a noise was felt to come from the bedroom and James quickly grasped the weapon Arret and very cautiously began to approach the bedroom. When he was startled when he saw James come to race in the monkey arm Onni.

\- You made me take a shot! - Said when he had calmed down for fear - Where was your master? -.

After touring the house, without finding Iianng, decided to sit and wait watching the news.

James felt it was too late when the sound of the door opening.

\- But do you know which order you do it? - James said that by turning the shutter Iianng did not expect to find the friend at home.

\- James, good to see you! -.

\- Prior to hug you but you have to take your appearance - he said with a serious tone, although his face was trying to hold back the smile - so I do not like -.

After you have turned off the two hugged as if they could see for a lifetime.

\- And what are these? - James said, looking at papers and books that Iianng had laid on the table first to greet him.

\- You can not hide anything expensive intergalactic secret agent! Well I decided to stay a little close to my father after the death of my mother - and looking at James, sounding a bit more saddened said - I saw him alone and sick ... I decided to come up in legal research assistant in order to stay close . After retirement my father dedicated himself to scientific publications is looking for an assistant for research in the library and I have brought my ... So I can see it near -.

James saw his friend in silence, imagining the feeling of discomfort that might have tried to see how helpless spectator before the death of his mother and then his father old, alone and sick.

\- Iianng you capsicum. ... But remember the covenant of the Alliance. You should never create a dangerous situation ... you never have to explain to anyone who you -.

After a moment of silence Iianng got up to feed the little monkey, and then opened the shutters and started to talk.

\- Do not you tell me why you're here! You have always been good at talking to others and to conceal your stuff like a good secret agent -.

\- I needed, my friend ... - he said, rising from his chair - The search for the possible hideout of Malandah I was turning into a bookworm -.

\- You did well to come then! -.

\- Then I see you also would serve to have your own opinion about a possible insight ... Ala - then noting the silence outside the window, broke off the sentence. - Sorry if I ask Iianng, but the bully your neighbor what happened to Dad? -.

\- Is out for a check with their parents - said out of the bedroom to go to the kitchen.

\- What about it? - James asked again, looking out the window left open.

\- Parents were concerned about some strange visions of his son and have led to a psychiatric control - said Iianng the room next door.

\- Visions! What kind of visions? - Attention and when he was asked to reach Iianng in the next room he came face to face with a cannibalistic Zann-To the huge teeth and could not suppress a scream of terror.

While James was dropped from the terror-To Zann was gradually taking the shape of Iianng laughing uproariously.

\- Dumb! Will you stop using so damn turned. Risking a call by the Council -.

\- A bit of fear as what you've taken the lesson that has served as overbearing Dad -.

\- You're crazy! - James said getting up - if the psychologist could denounce suspicious to the police to make the necessary checks -.

\- Do you think someone like Dad is credible - he said looking at his friend while barely restrained laughter.

\- You are a fool Iianng - said starting to laugh with my friend - ... but you're right! Ben is the blowhard -.

The good mood did change the minds of two friends, making them come back for a moment guys, before discussing intuition played by Ala.

\- It's been a while that we are looking for Malandah, but without positive results - said James - Neither you nor you noticed oddities on Earth I have found a planet on which any can be escaped because some are too far away, too hostile to the other Ala life ... But he had an insight! -.

\- But you said something about our mission? - Iianng stopped amazed.

\- Of course not! I invented a case presenting issues similar to what we are following and asked her advice. Ala has become one of the best detectives of the school Alibah Sinab -.

\- So close my dear James. You might get suspicious and investigate questions ... -.

\- I will always be the best at hiding things. Fear not - he said look smart - So ... Ala said that recent studies tend to return the fugitives in place of the crime as it is usually one in which children are held investigations -.

\- Then could ... Malandah -.

\- Yes! - James stepped on the break of his - and the planet on which we are not conducting investigations and also the most easily accessible and known by Malandah -.

\- We must go and report back to headquarters. We must not waste time. Isabel could be in danger - to prepare for rising Iianng said.

James remained in the bedroom took the opportunity to peek in the drawers of his desk and found some photos of Isabel.

\- So it's really cooked! - Muttered to himself and then heard the footsteps of his approach he put the photos in the drawer and closed it.

James just turned again being face to face with the Zann-to jumped in fright and then angrily tore a IIanng Transfer.

\- Will you stop stupid! This is not a toy - he said finally clearing the last traces of blood to the small tool-Zann - Now re-enter the tissue and stop that man unknown to joke -.

Despite the fear and concerns of the joke of James Iianng made him laugh again and the old carefree days as a boy come to mind during the journey to the headquarters.

### CHAPTER IV:

### THE SMALL GROWS.

It is the night sky shine on Arret and the three moons. A small arret out of hiding from the dormitory of the Training Centre and after traveling around the court quickly stops in front of the grate over which, in the distance, you can see the Advanced Research Center.

The silence is broken only by the breath of small arret gazing lights that illuminate the building in the distance.

Suddenly, from the courtyard of the research center, check with a precision laser beam that creates a hole on the grille, behind which lies the small arret who, having seen around the pass, to run to the point that started the beam laser.

The night was deep and darkness enveloped the tiny figure of the arret that come in front of the Advanced Research Center, with muffled step he reached the door where he started the laser beam. This was left open and the baby, a decision was introduced at the Centre.

The long white corridor was empty and the small arret through him paying attention to every little noise. At a certain point of the corridor on the left there was access to the central hall of the Advanced Research Center, they were in a range of equipment and access to lower floors. Suddenly a thud coming from the center of the great hall, broke the silence and startled the little arret better hid behind the wall of the corridor.

Inside the hall there was Nollah that opened access to the lower levels and, having seen around, closing it down behind him.

After a moment's pause the little arret continue its journey through the hallway and come to the end of that stopped in front of a door and knocked three times with a faint touch.

After a few moments the door opened. The interior of the room was dark and just before the small arret there was a dark figure who was taking a number of documents placed on the desk and other tools.

### CHAPTER V:

### THE STATE OF PLAY

The trip to the headquarters of Gramm and James Iianng City was for a way to finally share some jokes like old times. The meeting had in fact turned on the joking and the vitality that had always characterized their relationship. The memories of childhood spent together come to mind.

- That bungler Nonky of what happened! - Asked at one point James - I still remember the basketball game we did against Matt and Dad. That event guys! -.

\- Nonky I have revised my mother's funeral - said saddened Iianng - Already distressed when I saw him after the mock fatal accident I was shocked ... Review the Nonky always strikes me as much and sometimes I think you've been really happy if it was our - .

\- Iianng You're right! It's a piece of our life, our children. I think I would have the same reaction. But that combination? -.

\- From what I know he left his studies in astronomy and opened a gym with his basketball training. Does the owner ... but I think it would be a good player -.

\- Of course if he played for the Kiobak Arret was not bad, having regard to its accuracy! -.

\- You know you're right. The Kiobak is very similar to basketball but does not require physical height, only precision - then smilingly said - would have been an ace, that crazy guy! -.

\- Anyway ... ... I've seen - said James to change the subject - ... I saw those photos in your closet and I think six is a little crazy too! -.

Iianng, realizing that his friend had found the photos of the beautiful Isabel, became red and tried to find a plausible answer to hide his passion for the teacher.

\- But ... but ... you're rummaging in my drawers! And then these pictures are for news of Isabel ... Remember who was kidnapped by Malandah and we do not know where it is and whether it goes well -.

\- We will find it! -.

The ship, meanwhile, had arrived near the small farm and was introduced into the chimney to get to the secret underground headquarters, which were already Pacificus, and in conjunction Nattu the hologram Serton-Ga, and two funny Nollah P -Enian: Robert Gherard.

After leaving the small Onni in the lobby of the headquarters, the two friends took part in the Meeting Room.

\- Sit down boys! The meeting is about to begin - Pacificus said as soon as he saw them, before returning to speak in silence with Nicolas Nattu.

Although it was passed a while since the last time he saw Iianng Pacifius, these was not changed physically. Seemed to have the gift of eternity.

\- Gentlemen, we can begin - he said, as soon as he finished speaking, and saw everyone in their seats - the situation is not at all happy ... We have no definite information on where it can be Malandah Baley and if the teacher is still alive. The only news that is certain is that from our data it seems that the Malandah spacecraft has left Earth's atmosphere. However, the destination is by no means certain. You might think the system of P-Eno where there is the planet of traders P-2 with which Eno Malandah could obtain drugs for treatment and tools to complete the bomb without being discovered ... -.

\- But ... but ... with us! A criminal like that - he interrupted his agitated and talkative Robert - Ours is a planet of peaceful workers. The Alliance must notify us must protect ourselves. Besides, who we will refund the cost of purchasing the guards to defend cosmic ... -.

\- Robert, calm down - she said quietly Pacificus - It was only a hypothesis since we are all thinking about possible destinations Malandah -.

Gherard tried to calm the agitated friend Robert since they did not end when they started to talk more and there was room for a system of rules of conversation such as arret.

Once calmed the agitation of the little Robert, after a moment's pause, Ga-Serton spoke.

\- It could be argued that Malandah did not leave the ship to board in order to sidetrack us. On Earth, has left the final part of the projects and some important equipment that we have not yet recovered -.

While the group met Robert nodded, Nicolas Nattu intervened.

\- I do not think it would be governor. ... Malandah and his dragon are injured and in the forests of Alibah Sinab there are no medicines or plants capable of treating them. Then, without a spaceship, with no possibility of moving Malandah we must assume that he had in his mind to blow up our planet, our planet as there are ships capable of interstellar travel referred to Malandah can steal ... I do not think these are his plans or at least I do not know the reasons so serious disregard for the land by his -.

\- I agree with Nicolas - Pacificus said while Robert began to worry again - I take this opportunity to instruct, with your consent Professor Nattu recovery projects and equipment left by Malandah on earth because the shipment of urgency, as there Nollah informed, had no way of starting Arret immediately after the fight in the forest -.

\- Consent approved - said Ga-Serton - The recovery of recent studies Malandah will allow us to integrate the first that are in our possession at the Center for Advanced Research and be able to defend ourselves with our own solar bomb in case of attack ... - .

\- Or, better understand how to defuse the bomb created by Malandah - said he saw Pacificus always with great contempt interstellar wars.

\- I will go as soon as possible to the faults of the Devil - Nattu said after asked about the kidnapping of Professor Bailey.

\- Dear Nicolas - said saddened Pacificus - unfortunately we have no news of Isabel and we have no certainty about the reasons for the kidnapping, although I believe that Isabel was used only as a shield against unexpected attacks. Malandah still remains a scientist and his culture prevents him from becoming a criminal -.

\- But it already is! - Intervened even more agitated Robert - We want to blow up. Imagine if you did not plan to get rid of Professor Bailey. You have to do something ... -.

\- I have an idea about where it is - James said with a tone also decided to stop the agitation and Robert Gherard vain and silly attempts to calm his little friend - may be back on Arret ... -.

\- What makes you think about this - he said surprised Serton-Ga.

\- Speaking of recent studies conducted by the School of Earth Intelligence training, it seems that many researchers will return to places from which they fled because the most likely for any research. In our case, then it could be a possible solution, since Arret, as well as P-2 Eno is the planet more easily reachable by small boat of Malandah -.

\- Not a bad insight! - Pacifius said - I would propose to conduct investigations on several fronts. Professor Nattu will retrieve studies in the forests of Aga and I will make sure that Malandah not be left on Earth. James and reach Iianng Nollah to conduct research on Arret. While Robert and Gherard will monitor the situation on their planet and .... any costs paid mercenaries to defend Eno P-2 will be charged the Alliance. I know that Eno P-2 is governed by the rules of trade and that there is no central government, expenditure needed for everything you decide to do ... So do not worry about Robert - he added seeing the face of the small-p eniano worried.

All agreed with the decisions of Pacificus; Malandah the search had begun.

### CHAPTER VI:

### THE CENTER ARRETIANA INTELLIGENCE.

The spacecraft Nollah, was leading James and Iianng arretiana Intelligence Center, a secret facility that very few, as well as the members were eligible. Iianng was happy to have received the approval of the Council Integalattico to visit a place so private.

When you reach the square of the large ball of metal Arret, James greeted Nollah that came down from the ship to head toward the government building, after James had given the little monkey that Onni reluctantly followed the scientist.

\- Nollah does not come with us? - Asked Iianng when he was alone with James in the boat.

\- No. Only intelligence agents and a few other lucky - James said with a wink before going to the cockpit - and I'll tell you more! The poor did Nollah required to become a member of secret intelligence, but this was rejected -.

\- Will be disappointed! However I believe that as an important scientist Nollah must make do with the secrets of which he is already aware of his activities by -.

The spacecraft lifted off and evening, after finishing the edge of the platform on which there was a big metal ball, instead of rising in the air began to descend slowly at first, then faster and faster until you reach the base of the platform. The rays of the strong came not only there and the place had no access roads, if not in flight.

Arrived almost to the ground opened a small crack in the base of the platform and, after it was the right size, James drove the basket inside and then stood up from his seat.

After a while the body of Iianng was illuminated by a light light green in color, like wrapping it in a halo over his head and appeared as a bright label indicating its generality. While James looked comfortable these changes, the poor continue to observe Iianng worried.

\- What is happening to me? They are surrounded by a halo and are labeled as a criminal -.

\- Do not worry Iianng - James said, smiling to see his friend so upset - The security system of secret center has disabled the controls of the ship and reported the presence of a stranger -.

\- But ... but ... Could you tell me first. I got a fright! -.

\- I had to avenge the joke that I've done in your home, transforming, unknown to me, in one-to Zann! -.

\- Damn! I had to wait - Iianng said continuing to observe the halo of light that enveloped him - But where is this light that surrounds me out -.

\- The defense system of the Centre is a very advanced computer that after genetically identified the intruder, takes advantage of the energy emitted from his body to highlight the ... uh ... .... So to speak! Then the boss brings up the data and particulars to make it clear to anyone you meet who you are. ... The light is green around your body just because you have been authorized to enter. Otherwise you'd be surrounded by a bright red light that you would also prevent him from seeing well and your body as soon as possible, would have been tied with sophisticated instrumentation -.

\- Wow! - Iianng cried seeing the spaceship guided by the system security of the Centre of Intelligence Arret.

\- You do not enter any third party without our control! - James said, almost proudly, before seeing out the porthole.

The spacecraft, after a long journey through the corridors so as not to see the light background was finally arrived at its destination, landing in a hemispherical room where there were three armed arret waiting.

After being identified, was taken Iianng stripped of his old clothes to wear a simple suit, provided by the guards, who immediately boarded the ship to search.

When the first checks were carried out and was given access to the property, James saw the worried look of his friend began to speak.

\- You could have some bugs or other me ... checks are made to those who are always the center, every time he contacts with the outside world -.

\- I knew the checks on me - he said Iianng always watching the bright halo around him - But I never imagined that you had to undergo checks every time -.

\- Even secret agents might conspire against and it leaves the center may have felt the enemy or you are provided with registration systems, or other tampering. Nothing can be left to chance if you check the security of an entire planet and not only ... -.

Within the facility there were huge rooms with a thousand monitors where images were projected in the outside world. James stood at the door of the main room and began to explain to his friend what was allowed.

\- I noticed that your attention has been hit by those monitors. I will try to tell you what I can to prevent it gives you a thousand questions and seeking information to others. ... On those monitors is projected life of the entire planet. Each arret is listed, a bit like you right now - he said looking at the labels light above the head of Iianng - We can know and see what people combine individual, day and night, thanks to a powerful and very advanced satellite system. We have all the information possible here! -.

Iianng saw amazed systems which was equipped with the structure and avoid more questions in seeing the embarrassment of his having to explain a few things, most likely because all the conversation between the two would be monitored. After giving a last look at the great hall and its monitor Iianng followed the friend who Stasa away.

The two walked through corridors lit with white, with a thousand invisible and control systems and identification, until they came into a room where I was waiting for them, to the surprise of Iianng, the governor-Ga Serton.

\- Good morning venerable governor - said Iianng after seeing him.

\- Good morning Iianng - he said, smiling at seeing the wonder on the face of his friend - Sit guys! -.

\- Thanks Governor! - James said before turning to his friend - you know that all governors are members of secret intelligence Arret or have better access to the property directly from the metal ball that is above us and are entitled to be updated and give us advice on investigations leading -.

\- This is one reason why the Security Center is located just below the large government building - Ga-Serton intervened - it is right that those who govern know also take appropriate decisions and aware ... Now we come to our questions -.

\- How the directives received from the Council, I will deal with Iianng of research on Malandah Arret - James begins to speak - but I have to look for clues as to where the signals may have hidden -.

\- Is this the real problem James! - Ga-Serton said - I appreciate your insight ... well ... that of your partner \- said, sketching a smile - you must have at least a vague idea where to start research -.

\- The logical thing to imagine would be to think of a return to Malandah Advanced Research Centre -. ...

\- I did check! The same Nollah confirmed to me that the last checks in the Center are not tampered with. The computer security has reported strange presences -.

\- This is true, but let's not forget that Malandah worked there for years and knows the security systems ... \- then after a brief pause he added - it could also be in aerospace center to steal the most powerful spacecraft ever to leave, so make more difficult his research -

\- Do not bypass anything James! - Ga-Serton said after hearing the speech of James, who returned to think before speaking again.

\- Sure Ala said that the return on the crime scene may also be due to family reasons ... -.

\- I do not think Malandah risk so much to be her brother Nollah - said Ga-Serton - Nollah We have established that she knew nothing of secret projects, that there was lying on the relationship with his brother. The polygraph and the controls to rule out that we did the two brothers are plotting against us -.

\- If there was a child, then ... - Iianng said.

There was a silence and after a short pause for reflection Ga-Serton began to speak.

\- A son really is! ... Malandah arret as all are entitled to have a child ... -

\- But venerable Ga-Serton, Malandah, like any other arret not know at his son. These are enclosed within the Training Centre as soon as born. Would like to locate it with the genetic detection systems in a short time, without getting caught! -

\- ... ... Might already know - then softly - I know who is my son! I know I should not watch but a friend of mine has noted with alarm system and genetics made me sell -.

\- But ... but ... - James said, amazed, seeing the shoulders of Ga-Serton, made almost to apologize for his behavior.

\- So Malandah has a child here? - Iianng said, not understanding the words that Ga-Serton told James.

\- Eh ... Yes, yes dear Iianng. It's true! - Ga-Serton said, again with clear voice, returning to him after the trust made to James.

\- We could then start the training center - said James - Find a small ... and ask for information -.

\- Excellent James. In your research will help you know that Nollah Tullah, the Director of the Training Centre. I will do checks to see if it centers aerospace have suffered strange theft. If Malandah here has to acquire or obtain supplies or acquire a new ship. We will not leave anything to chance! - Ga-Serton said, happy to have found a place to start research in healthy children and motioned for James to keep him the confidence made to him.

### CHAPTER VII:

### CONTROLS AT THE HEART OF EDUCATION AND THE DISCOVERY OF THE THEFT CRA

As soon as he saw the small Onni Iianng, escaped from the power Nollah to race in the arm.

\- What's the matter baby? - Iianng said seeing the monkey growls affectionately against his temporary guardian.

\- Forgive her, is a spoiled little monkey! - James said when she saw Nollah.

\- Do not worry. I'm used to these attitudes on the part of land animals - he said, before indicating the Training Centre in front of them - This is the place to educate and train future inhabitants of the planet. The sex life is separate from the reproduction. This can happen only in the laboratory and each arret entitled to have only one offspring in order to regulate births on the planet and ensure that all appropriate welfare. Neither parent, however, knows his son. This ensures that we are all the good of the community, not only for their own offspring -.

\- What a cruel system! - Exclaimed almost involuntarily Iianng.

\- I know that you can look like land, since you are still dominated by feelings and passions - Nollah said - But I assure you that in a world of pure rationality is an efficient system. Moreover, the difficulties encountered in the early hours of its introduction no longer exist because the younger generation is already educated in the new company and new rules -.

\- But ... uh ... I do not think that the instinct of a parent to know their offspring is completely eliminated - said James trying to avoid reference to the confession of Ga-Serton - I believe that you too want to know your child -.

\- I have not yet procreated and will not do it until my skills are not up to. Only then will I think make a real contribution to the community with my dna - Nollah said very seriously - I do not know if anyone has breached the secrecy and known aspect of his ancestry but while acknowledging that this has been done will be the educators of the Centre Training to identify the activities to which children are prone and is not said to be the same field of their parents. These are therefore unable to support their children than others. It is a system that works better than the Earth, I assure you -.

While not fully convinced Iianng made a sign of assent to the words of Nollah and after that the discussion was finished, the three headed to the training center, a large building surrounded by so many yards and gardens where children were playing arretiani. Not far from the same you can see the Advanced Research Center.

The Director of Tullah, was waiting at the entrance of the Training Centre.

Tullah arret was a small man with big eyes and slender but as is typical of the villages of Arret; Iianng greeted with great cordiality, and James Nollah.

\- Health Friends. I am glad to see you, even if you have to make a difficult task - Tullah said.

\- Health Director Tullah! I guess you have been informed of our arrival and the task to be accomplished -.

\- Sure estimated Nollah! Of my staff will help you to find the son of Malandah. This work is hard because the small arretiani that are in this center are so many -.

\- From the information available to intelligence we know that the baby should be in the west wing that looks out to the Centre of Advanced Research - said James.

\- Well! If you have these reports the job is impossible - Tullah said, before pausing to reflect - ... um ... I wanted to denounce an accident to safety, but ... um ... now that you told me the possible location of the son of Malandah suspicion that the thing could cover -.

\- What is it? - James said, concerned by the revelation - no need to hide anything. Even the slightest suspicion of what might be the presence of Malandah -.

\- Um ... On the fence in our yard east of the metal was found the other day a small circular hole which at first seemed to have been practiced by a laser beam - Tullah said - the small size did not create alarm in the controller but the cut made perfect immediately arouse suspicion first. ... At first it was thought too small to action of some bright and unruly but then it is assumed the presence of a weapon within the Centre and now that you came ... -.

\- This suggests the involvement of Malandah - James intervened, completing the speech of the Director of Tullah.

Two assistant director, with genetic detection, greeting the new arrivals were present and waiting for orders.

\- This information helps us a lot, confirming not only to information collected by intelligence about the presence of the small in the eastern part of the structure but also supports the hypothesis about the presence of Malandah Arret - Nollah said, turning to James.

After Tullah had given the order, his collaborators, and Saah Tiih, they began to complete the disposal of James, part of the investigation and Iianng Nollah and providing also their genetic detectors.

The detectors were little gadgets genetic projecting a light beam. These were to be set with the genetic codes of the person whose son wanted to try and project the light beam on the subject. Only if the green beam was the result of the research was positive. Otherwise, the light was red.

James, Iianng, accompanied by the little monkey Onni, and the two assistants Nollah Tiih Saah and immediately began work trying to look for when you first son Malandah for news before it was too late.

James, Nollah, Iianng, Saah Tiih and control the many small arretiani unabated in the east side of the Centre, but despite the great efforts in finding any positive results reached: whenever the sensor was pointed at a small light that you saw was always the red one.

\- Ouch, that tired! - Iianng exclaimed, coming with his friend James distressed look - It's like finding a needle in a haystack. There is another way to search for the son of Malandah? -.

\- Unfortunately no, Iianng. In the training center have not been implanted genetic detection systems in a way that they could bribe the managers to know the identity of their children -.

\- But it will take days! -.

\- At least we know who is in this part of the structure. Imagine if we did not even notice this -.

Despite continued research Iianng was discouraged, stroking the small Onni how to find strength. The friendly manager Tullah, at some point in the morning, seeing the great fatigue of guests, give them the fruits of energy.

\- Can I offer you some fresh fruit - he said \- I see that fatigue begins to be felt -.

\- No thanks Director - Nollah answered immediately - during the assignments do not take anything -.

\- Well ... I ... - Iianng intervened, he may see his little monkey hungry - I ... I would have some hunger -.

\- Get well dear boy. They are the fruits that we produce to feed the many children you see. I am very energetic -.

\- Thank you. If I can get another for my monkey - said as soon as the director kindly handed the basket with colored fruits.

Under the watchful eye of James and others, still grappling with the detectors genetic Iianng sat down to enjoy the rewards offered by Onni, taking advantage to look around. The children were still many to check. Those already checking to maintain a pale red, a bit like the gold that had formed around Iianng when he was visiting the Central Intelligence arret. Many, however, were still small to control.

Suddenly he stopped Nollah to communicate telepathically with the Center for Advanced Research.

Even James had stopped looking at the worried look of Nollah during communication.

\- I have some news to tell you - when he finished Nollah to communicate - the Research Centre of the material was stolen from the room Malandah -.

\- When ... what? - James said.

\- It seems that the theft goes back a few days ago. I was informed that the documents were stolen from the desk and a spaceship -

\- A ship! - James said, worried about a new exodus of the scientist.

\- Unfortunately, yes! - Nollah said before putting his detector genetic - I must go and check which documents were stolen. You are continuing the search. The son of Malandah we need to get news, given that his presence on the planet seems to be almost sure -.

After saying this, Nollah without even asking to be accompanied walked away from the training center, leaving James and Iianng to perform the work alone and also when the Director Tullah walked away to greet him, he approached a small Iianng, calling on the sidelines .

\- It's me! - Said a small arret from large yellow eyes.

### CHAPTER IX:

### THE LITTLE ODO.

\- Are you? What we are trying! ... The son of Malandah? - Whispered Iianng not to be heard - but you have the red halo. You can not be you ... -.

\- You are Iianng, right? -.

And after seeing the little nod Iianng had rubbed his forehead and removing a small invisible veil that covered.

\- Try Now! - Said staring Iianng, who had taken the detector genetic point it at the front of the child. The red light was green, much to the amazement of Iianng.

\- I reported a message from my father, before I should ask the Council - said the little - Do not make me discover -.

Iianng was astonished by that statement, and without hesitation decided to hide the small and slender arret under his long overcoat.

\- What's your name? -.

\- Odo! -

\- Odo, hanging on my shoulders that I cover with my coat - and said this Iianng put his coat on his back, hiding the tiny Odo, the shape of which was felt even through the long overcoat.

James noted that his friend came back and approached him.

\- Where the hell did you go! I was looking -.

\- Have you found anything? - He said absently.

\- Of course not! I was wondering why all this had Nollah hurry back only to the Centre for Research -.

\- I can not tell! But ... - stopped seeing the director Tullah, go back to them.

\- What did you say? -.

\- Um ... I need to get out of here! I'm tired ... I speak no more -.

\- Ok. Do not heat it becomes strange - said James did not understand the nervousness of his friend and, after greeting the director and the other two research assistants who went with Iianng walked toward the exit of the Training Centre.

\- Now you tell me what happened to you? - James said he was not just away from the training center - this behavior is not like you and I know you too well to ... -.

James could not finish the sentence when he saw emerge from the coat of his head surrounded by green light arret of the small green.

\- Get it now! - James whispered Iianng seeing enchanted by surprise - Now we must find a private place where you can talk to the small Odo -.

\- Ma .. must be routed directly to the government building ... -.

\- We will, but not now. Odo said that the father has a message for me and does not want to say that other -.

\- We will go to a hotel nearby. Here we can talk quietly - and said that James did get his friend on the little spaceship to take him in a hotel not far away.

The presence of two land unaccompanied by arretiani not caused such a stir, because the civilization arretiana was used to treat and live with other intelligent cosmos. However, James for the avoidance of doubt, before ordering the camera showed the card to Arret Intelligence and explained that he needed a room for a few hours rest before resuming his work.

The idea of James worked very well because the director of the small hotel, in addition to expressing a lot of kindness, he ordered his staff not to disturb them and prevent others did on their noise level.

The room was the best technology that Iianng imaginable. Before him there was a bed of gravity, which floated slowly to the center of the room dominated by soft lighting that changes intensity depending on the activity or tone of voice so that customers had a more rapid movements or tone of voice high light intensified, also changing in tone and vice versa. Once the light was only on a calm blue suffused as Iianng and James had remained silent to check that everything was quiet around them, before you start talking with the little I hear. The little monkey had been Onni property to see the scene.

After a nod to James, Iianng took off her coat from her shoulders and brought down the small arret.

\- Come here I hear. Sit in that chair in front of us - he said with a friendly Iianng - Do not be afraid this is my best friend James. What I say will remain secret -.

The small after seeing James with the big eyes, almost to want to scrutinize the intentions, decided to speak.

\- My father is back on Arret a few days ago. He was injured and needed care, before leaving. Trust yourself and your intuition and Iianng, knowing you'd come looking for me, asked me to tell you that his intentions are not bad ... want to help arretiani from imminent danger ... -

\- He wants to help him with a bomb? - James said angry - I know the qualities of belief among arretiani and I tell you that if you're going to rip off our minds to succeed. Your father has stolen a powerful bomb without saying anything to the Council, was going to kill my friends in the battle on Earth and has kidnapped a person whose health now fear -

\- I do not know what made my father! He told me to tell you that no bad intentions - then turning to Iianng - Isabel is safe and well. My father was forced to take to avoid being killed -.

Iianng and James were heartened that the news related to Isabel, though they did not have material proof that he was well and was rescued.

\- Why did you want to talk to me before being brought to the Council? - Iianng churches.

\- Within the Council there are people who do not want the good of all, but are blinded only by personal power ... -.

\- Who? - James asked curiously - Ga-Serton, some of the land? -.

\- I do not know. My father could not help himself much. He had to take some important projects and get away from the planet before it was too late -.

\- Plans? - James exclaimed, amazed, looking Iianng - But ... but the project is on Earth ... in a cave on the ridge of the Rift of the Devil? -.

\- Yes, We left them there and Professor Nicola Nattu should recover today -.

\- I do not understand Iianng! There is something back - then turning to Odo said - you are sure what you said ... that was to take over the project at the Center for Advanced Research? ... Perhaps he had to take more! -.

\- I'm sure! -

\- James doing strange questions. You know the little ones of this planet have installed the memory chip that allows them to remember every single word that was said. One might think that mint. But why would he do that? ... And my intuition tells me that he is sincere -.

\- Um ... If so we have to understand what projects he was referring to ... and then we discover this power-hungry member of the Board - James said quietly, touching his chin as he was being strong meditation.

The soft light of the room created an ideal environment for those words uttered in silence and meditation of those breaks that had been created.

Then, seeing the time, James stood up, exclaiming that it was time to return to the Training Centre to ensure that their long absence might make someone suspicious.

The little I hear again hid under the overcoat Iianng to return to kindergarten ready to be discovered and brought before the Council for formal questioning.

At the center, while Iianng, went off to free the little I hear, James was stopped by Nollah who had just returned from the Centre for Research and was talking with the director so excited Tullah.

\- What happened Nollah? - James said seeing for the first time worried about the scientist.

\- Malandah joined the research center and stole the bomb solar projects! -

\- But ... if I remember correctly were the initial plans. The definitive ones, at this time will have been recovered from the cave Nattu Professor in the Devil's Fault -.

\- ... Yes ... but ... even those projects were important - Nollah said, hesitating.

\- I do not understand why you're so upset Nollah. Soon we will have the final draft ... -

\- Who says that only the final part of the project! There are not any studies to make a mistake in understanding the operation of the bomb. A small change could lead us astray -.

\- Ah! Actually I never thought ... -.

\- Malandah also stole a ship of the research center, with a range greater than the previous year and if, as I think, is already beyond our planet, the search can detect more difficult than it already was. ... We must find the young to understand where they can be hidden Malandah. Examine your mind so that there mint and ... -.

The sentence was interrupted by cries of Nollah Iianng announced that he has found the son of Malandah and while the others ran to the small Iianng and Odo. James smiled after he returned to meditate on the situation.

### CHAPTER IX:

### THE USE OF MALANDAH.

The ship of the Training Centre had just landed on the large open space dominated by the huge ball, the seat of government buildings. The weather was cold and cloudy, and one of only two of Arret had a brightness that seemed dimmer than usual. Iianng noticed this strange phenomenon while James followed with the little Nollah and Tullah Odo toward the government building.

\- It seems that one of the two stars is sick! -.

\- Are the clouds and mist that gives you this impression Iianng. The scientists of this world shall keep the situation continually. It's a bad day in a figurative sense ... remember that we must try to find the light inside the Council! -.

\- You're right! - Iianng said, averting his eyes from the sky - We took a big risk to have that confidence and now we hear from the little use it. But how do we know? Who can it be? -.

\- There are not many members of the Council ... - James said softly, and making sure Nollah Tullah that preceded them, would not hear the conversation - Isabel, you and I are excluded since Isabel was abducted and we have been contacted by the Odo confidence -.

\- I also exclude Pacificus - almost intuitively Iianng said.

\- Me too, if we think only about the quality of the people - reflecting said - I also rule out the inhabitants of unfriendly Watt-One, which, although Council members were never presented to the meeting, preferring a secluded life in their modern world -.

\- Do not remain that Nollah, Ga-Serton and the two funny people of Eno-P 2 -.

\- Exact Iianng! It could all have reasons to be in their hands a bomb so powerful: Nollah could use it to improve his knowledge and seek recovery of its exclusion from the research, although I believe that to have such a powerful weapon the suspect should still have a thirst for power. I do not know if a scientist, who voted to know more in power, may feel that ambition! -.

\- Uhm ... Ga-Serton is a politician, accustomed to command. He would be a good suspect but seeing him so good-natured not think ever. Then there are the people in clunky Eno P-2: Robert and Gherardi. But I look so clumsy ... -.

\- Iianng, physical appearance and ways of doing trarti should not be swayed. Even minute cool Gherard and Robert might be interested in the bomb. They live on a planet without a head, regulated only by the rules of trade and with a weapon so powerful they could take the domain -.

\- I confess that it would make me smile, although I agree with the comments you made - Iianng said, before stopping the conversation to get inside the big metal ball.

At the entrance to the hall of the Galactic Council Tullah stopped to deliver the baby Odo for interrogation.

\- I can not come within the Council. Nollah I commend to you the little I hear for questioning. I will wait here \- and then after having crossed the little warmly Odo turned to him saying - You do not fear. They do not want to hurt your father, but just want to come back here with us. Now go, I'll wait out here -.

Inside the great hall-Ga Serton greeted the newcomers and I hear the little affectionate gesture. In the hall, as well as Ga-Serton, Gherardi and Robert, was in connection even holographic pacificus. Places of wattiani were empty as usual.

\- Dear friends, today we have a new guest in the Council - said Ga-Serton before turning to the little I hear - I hear no fear. We want you to just a few questions. Sit in that chair -.

Just as Ga-Serton uttered these words, from the floor came a special chair: the chair of the truth. It was a small chair that emitted invisible electromagnetic waves that acting on the nervous system and brain, preventing those who would sit to lie.

When I hear he had sat down, got up to check Nollah before all the baby sitting before the Council was the son of Malandah. He took the instrument used in the training center and in front of everyone, we introduced the filter containing the DNA of Malandah, then flashed the beam of the instrument on the forehead and immediately hear the small, around the same we developed a light green halo .

\- Good. Go back to your place Nollah - Ga-Serton said, before starting the interview - I hear, you're the son of Malandah? -.

\- It's me venerable Ga-Serton - said Odo, as in the throes of a narcotic effect.

\- Came to see your father these days? -.

\- It -.

\- When you saw the last day? -.

\- Before yesterday -.

\- I thought so - said Nollah - and the day of the burglary at the Advanced Research Center -.

\- So you think your brother has been to recapture the initial studies of the project? - Said Ga-Serton - What do you think could do with it, since he had led them in his possession and had the final part of the bomb and implementation? -.

\- Venerable Malandah lost during the battle on Earth, the final part of his studies and imagining that they were already in our hands, wanted to prevent that we could decipher the first studies using -.

\- Nollah, so you think you can not be large to decipher the final part of the project, which is recovering Nattu, no projects have stolen from the Advanced Research Center? - Ga-Serton said worried.

\- It is possible! Malandah, besides being a great scientist, has always been very jealous of his discoveries, and I can easily imagine that he specifically wanted to make incomprehensible the second part of his studies, so that only those in possession of both projects can understand Solar and build the bomb.

A silence fell in the hall, before the Ga-Serton had the strength to ask about the theft to the small Odo.

\- It was in the Research Center, where I met ... but I do not know if he took the projects that are looking for \- said Odo.

\- Malandah imagined that we would have questioned her son and declined to tell him everything - Nollah said, as he watched the look of assent to that of Ga-Pacificus Serton.

\- Why Malandah tried the little I hear. He could take projects and run away without leaving a trace behind! - Pacificus acutely observed.

To prevent the small Odo was questioned on the issue, revealing the fears of the father for the presence of a member suspected of confidence and made Iianng, it intervened interrupting the speech.

\- The love of parents, at times, does not make the right choices - then glanced at Ga-Serton said to cause it to change the subject - not just those who violate the norms of this planet to know your child -.

\- Erm ... Yeah, yeah ... - intervened embarrassed Ga-Serton - ... Rather we should now link up with Nattu for news on the recovery of the second part of the project -. That said, Ga-Serton, without waiting for the replication Pacificus, lighted holographic connection from the fault of the Devil and the image of prof. Nicolas Nattu appeared at the center of the large table attracting the attention of members.

\- Good morning, Reverend. Hello dear brothers Council! - Nattu soon as he began to be realized in conjunction with the council chamber.

\- The name of all Hello dear Nicolas. Update me on your visit -.

\- Unfortunately I have good news - Nattu said in a worried voice.

\- Nicolas What happened? - Asked pacificus.

\- Unfortunately, inside the cave there are no plans. I will conduct further investigation at this time to understand ... -. - This just does not want us. Now, we have neither the initial nor the final draft - said Serton-Ga.

\- ... And I would add another. Now we must also understand who has the final projects as not being Malandah to return to Earth. It is likely that there is a spy among us ... - he said, and then throwing a knowing glance at Iianng, unseen by others, so that he was surprised that Pacificus had guessed the reason for the previous interruption.

\- The situation becomes more complicated! - Ga-Serton said worried, after reflecting on what was said by Pacificus - I would ask one thing ... I hear, you know if your father was to return to the projects on the ground? -.

\- No, I do not know, venerable -.

\- Now you know tell us where it may have been a refugee? -

\- No. He only said he would not go very far and that there was no danger to him -.

The look of Ga-Serton was concerned about the limited information that the child had received and Odo, having received the consent of the other, he ordered them to lead you to Tullah returned to his training center with other small arretiani.

\- Where can he go? - Exclaimed, then, Ga-Serton.

\- May be ... - Nollah intervened before being interrupted by Robert worried and agitated.

\- Do not say new Eno-P! Do not say it! -.

\- Robert, you know, unfortunately, is the most likely destination. Malandah took a rocket with a range that allows you to reach your solar system and this is more spacious and quiet of the solar system. Eno on P-2 also can be found easily and without arousing curiosity all that is needed to complete the bomb ... -.

\- Do you mean that our society is governed by the rules of free trade does not work? -.

\- But no! Robert're looking for a solution ... -.

\- No, no I do not want to take any risks - he said with rough and awkward gestures, almost to the Iianng smile every time I listen.

\- Robert reassured hours - said in a tone of strong and sure-Ga Serton - Your planet is the goal that the intelligence was considered most likely. So we have to move as soon as possible to conduct our research. You and accompany Gherard Iianng Eno and James P-2 and will lead your research -.

Robert agreed with a whimper, before resided.

\- And I will continue the investigation Nollah Arret, while Pacificus monitor the situation on Earth. I want to remind you that we have no news about Isabel and we must act quickly to avoid the worst -.

These words concluded the session of the Council and were the beginning of the journey that Iianng was going to take to a new and unknown solar system.

### CHAPTER X:

### SYSTEM P-ENO.

The small ship of the two small p-Enian, Robert and Gherad was traveling a little space that separated the planet Arret than the P-2 Eno. A thousand stars were shining bright as ever outside the door: interstellar travel was only possible to admire the beauty of the stars, since none was close enough to cover the other with its brightness. Not even the intergalactic journeys were able to show this show. The deep space, what separates a galaxy on the other, in fact, it is completely dark and if it was possible to make these trips not using the shortcuts provided by the dimensional doorways that connect the various parts of the universe between them, the trip would revealed more dark as we walked away from the galaxy of departure.

The Eno-P system was approaching and the onboard computer had begun to initiate the process of awakening from sleep criologico. Robert had just woke up and walked in the boat with funny movements, limping and keeping his head.

\- Ouch, ouch ... And who are these? - Said seeing Iianng and James who were awakening - Ah, yes! Well ... Now I suffer from amnesia -.

\- Rob, is calm. It is the machine that gives these cryogenic effects and then do not walk up and down so fast. You must allow time for your body to recover - he said the peaceful Gherard seeing his friend already agitated after awakening.

\- Not at all! My body is strong and vigorous said, giving himself a shot on exile chest, causing a strong cough along with some pain.

\- Seen! - Gherard cried with disappointment for Robert.

Iianng meanwhile was absorbed in the observation of space outside the porthole, millions of stars illuminating the darkness of space, creating almost the same as if it were an enormous living being. As soon as his eye was caught by the Star-P system as Eno, who was approaching, he turned to Gherard to ask him some information.

\- Gherard, I'd like to know some more information on your solar system -.

\- Well I would gladly tell you dear boy. So at least I stop worrying about that crazy - Gherard answered with a gesture of despair at the friend who still walks with a limp - You must know that the system of P-Eno was uninhabited. Life here was made possible by changing weather and environmental conditions exist. The planets of the system p-eniano are four, but first, what you see just across the door is hot, inhospitable to any life form, but not useless. The surface of P-0 Eno, in fact, is mainly composed of ferrous material used as raw material in steel Eno present on P-1, the second planet in the system, for the construction of the works then sold on our planet -.

\- Then the planets are actually inhabited only P 2 and P-Eno-Eno 3? - James asked curiously.

\- To tell you the truth, the planet lived like you want, it's just our own, Eno-P 2. The last planet, Eno P-3, where we will stop in a while, in fact, is a sparsely populated place, like the second. While P-Eno is a site for a large steel mill, P-3 Eno is home to the biggest observatory planet of our galaxy -.

\- Wow! - Exclaimed almost involuntarily Iianng.

\- We hope that with those big so we can understand where Malandah! - Robert said that after smes to walk nervously to the spacecraft, was warming up the joints of the arms.

\- But do you stop these absurd movements Rob! \- Gherard said, before continuing the conversation. - Our planet has no central government but is governed by the rules of free trade ... -.

\- ... By money ... - Robert pointed out, stressing that as a gesture.

\- Yes! - Said Gherard - Do you think that the churches and holy places are paid and have neon signs -.

\- Ah! These priests. We do not have the money to even worry about our future .... for the afterlife - Robert pointed out, prompting a smile Iianng.

\- How is that possible? - James said puzzled \- usually before they reach a certain degree of evolution of the species and avoid social unrest, a central government is necessary. As you did in the past? -.

\- We have not had a central government for one simple reason: P-Eno is not inhabited by indigenous people by beings that have developed in these places before reaching an appropriate change -.

\- We import. Here! Let's face Gherard. We imported! -.

\- Robert you stop interrupting me every time! \- Intervened Gherard - As you may have noticed we have a look identical to yours, because we are on Earth. We were taken by Arretiani when conducting surveys on land and when we learned of P-2 Eno and the ability to create us a new life is to be able to live there. We wanted to avoid a return to our earthly life miserable -.

\- See also the P-2 Eno is not getting better! \- Robert pointed out with disappointment Gherard.

\- Our planet is inhabited by all the then existing species in the galaxy and each of them carries on a trade for a living -.

\- And how to defend the planet against attack by Malandah ...? - Asked James.

\- There! Now I return to stomach pains - Robert said, apologizing to his friend for the constant interruptions.

\- The stomach aches are due to Robert that this thing will take us to incur other expenses, at a time not so happy for our business. .... The defense of the planet is made by specific companies of mercenaries, which require good money to ensure adequate protection from attack. And all contribute to the expenditure would otherwise be punished by teams of punishers, also paid properly, traders unhappy about the attitude -.

\- But it's strange your company! - Exclaimed Iianng Gherard thinking about what he had said.

Meanwhile, P-3 Eno, had become very close and could see on the surface of the large telescope mobile.

On Earth, meanwhile, prof. Nicolas Nattu had noticed strange marks on the edge of the entrance to the cave on the ridge of the Rift of the Devil. There were signs that appeared to have been caused by mechanical arms, probably used to remove the big boulder close to the cave. Nattu, now he was certain that the final part of the solar bomb project had been removed by someone other than Malandah. The signs on the wall of rock in size and footprint coincided with those who created the mechanical arms of his spacecraft recovery: one of the many ships that came with the Center for Advanced Research Arret.

### CHAPTER XI:

### THE TELESCOPE OF GALACTIC P-ENO 3 PLANETS AND PRISON.

P-3 Eno was a planet placed at the edge of the small-p eniano system, with a cold climate and sparsely populated. The rarefied atmosphere and almost devoid of oxygen, favored astronomy but to block the spread life on the planet. The only inhabitants were the astronomers and scientists of the huge observation center spot on the equator of the planet: it was a huge telescope that dominated the desert expanses of the planet and on the sides of which were built laboratories and accommodation for astronomers. The large telescope was based on large reinforced tracks that crossed the entire planet, while making comments to make eliminating the movement of rotation or revolution of the planet or to make observations from different angles to get a complete view of the celestial bodies observed.

The ship Robert Gherard and was approaching the huge telescope, and as the distance was reduced it really took on enormous dimensions. Iianng and James surprised by the p-Enian pharaonic building, they saw the ship enter in one of the many entrances located along the walls of the huge telescope.

To await their arrival there was proffessor Lutor, an arret who had decided to devote himself to astronomical observation from P-3 Eno. The sleek and slender figure, feline eyes and dark body with tapered head does not betray its origins. Lutor was, like all arretiani, courteous manner and in a few words. Iianng greeted with great affection and our other friends and being already familiar with the difficult mission that had to follow, did not hesitate to bring them to his workplace.

\- Here we can talk in confidence - Lutor said after closing the door of his office.

The room had a large table in the middle and screens that project images captured by the telescope. The wall opposite the door was a huge window from which it was possible to observe the empty expanses of the planet, the big track on which you move the telescope.

\- Dear Lutor, I guess you know why we are here - said Gherardi, when all were seated around the big table glass.

\- Sure Gherard! Nollah warned me of your arrival and your mission -

\- Yeah. I always forget that you have worked at the Center for Advanced Research and Arret Nollah Malandah and have always been two of your classmates -.

\- Yeah! ... I just can not understand why Malandah have done this. I've always known as a meticulous scientist and calm, always ready to help others. I would not hesitate to call more caring brother. ... I just do not understand -.

\- Oh yes. But no compassion professor - said Robert - Now we must think of our planet, to us. We must find him and kill him! -.

Iianng could not be serious every time Robert began talking about shaking convulsively gesturing.

\- Rob, you want to calm down! - Gherard intervened, stopping the arm of his friend who was waving in the air - Lutor, pay no attention to what you say. You know him. Our office expects to find Malandah and report its position to the Galactic Council -.

\- Yes, I know! - Said Lutor quiet before calling Robert - Do not worry, we'll find it. Then see, for as I do, Malandah would never hurt anyone. Let alone destroy your planet -.

Grumbling as usual, Robert had calmed down and came back to listen Lutor.

\- You must be Iianng! - Said seeing the boy who nodded - I heard about you and I think Pacificus not made a mistake in choosing. .... While you're James, the investigator of the Intelligence Arret -.

\- I see that you are well informed professor - said James, of information held of astronomer intrigued.

\- Yes Nollah informed me .... Indeed, thanks to its timely notice I have already started looking for Malandah -.

\- What have you discovered? - James said.

\- Unfortunately I have to disappoint you. I have had no reports or sightings of spacecraft to our solar system -.

\- Well, well - he whispered to himself the little Robert, under the gaze of Gherard annoyed.

\- Hmm ... This could be because, despite the sudden communication of Nollah, Malandah had already landed on a planet before the activation of p-Enian sensors approach -.

\- Could be! As a member of the Intelligence, what advice now? -.

\- Well, we can not waste time. Us we must go to P-2 Eno, the only planet in the system where Malandah and his Falstok can find what they need. We must now take information from people on the planet who have had contact with him to find just useful information. Her teacher, however, will continue research with the telescope in order to quickly identify possible unknown spacecraft moving away -.

All were in full agreement with the suggestions of James and without delays to the ship Robert and Gherardi was again flying to P-2 and Eno, in no time at all, the small porthole-planet observatory was already far .

When the ship is located half way between P 2 and P-Eno-Eno 3, the focus of Iianng was hit by a series of small planets that could be seen just below the spacecraft.

\- What are those? - Iianng said, without looking away from the porthole.

\- There does not advise you to stay dear boy! \- Robert said, smiling to himself.

\- Um ... those are the planets-Iianng prison \- said Gherard noticing the curiosity of Iianng and James. - These planets are nothing more than the cells for their inhabitants as there is sufficient space to accommodate only one or maximum two persons -.

\- Ah, yes. I see! - And approaching the porthole look after squinted continued - on their surface one can see the detainees. But what have they done to deserve that fate, to live alone on the little planets -.

\- Well, they must serve many and varied sins that I can not list now, but I assure you that prison often does - Gherard said seeing the look of condescending Robert.

The porthole of the ship traveling to P-2 Eno, Iianng remained absorbed in watching the guests of those little planets, busy in small services or climbing stairs coming out of high and dangerous atmosphere enveloping the small planets.

### CHAPTER XII:

### THE STRANGE POLITICS OF P-ENO 1.

The great planet P-2 Eno, illuminated by thousands of artificial light was now visible through the portholes of the spacecraft. The entire planet's surface had been affected by construction, except for a few green areas in the world that some traders had made breaking down old buildings to offer, so paid, to those interested in healthful and relaxing walks in places. Everything on the planet was privatized and to aim for profit.

In contact with the dense atmosphere, and Iianng James felt the gravitational pull of the planet that was much more intense than Earth's.

The spacecraft Robert Gherard and landed in a courtyard of a private home and as soon as Iianng set foot on the new planet, the feeling of more weight was evident.

\- What's the matter? - Robert said, smiling at the sight Iianng stagger to the most serious nature.

\- But ... I can not walk properly. Gravity is much stronger than Earth's and that of Arret -.

\- Eh, eh, eh. Yeah, boy. This seriousness has made the inhabitants of this planet smaller in stature - and then, with a funny attitude of pride she said - I, in fact, was a slender boy ... ... and this beautiful planet, as you see me in! -.

\- Rob But stop! - Intervened angrily gesture Gherard - But if you have been always like this! -.

\- What a friend! Always manages to ruin my narratives - Robert muttered, before walking away from Iianng, who meanwhile had enabled James with the system to cancel the anti-gravity force that the severity of P-2 Eno exerted on them.

\- It is better now? - Gherard said he had followed the gesture and the two, got confirmation, he continued - ... However, even if Robert exaggerates and works very fancy, there is some truth in what he said. Who lives long this planet and especially those born here has a more stocky stature. The arretiani, however, as you noted are very slim because their gravity, albeit slightly, is lower than that of Earth. For Professor Lutor, in fact, it was very difficult to stay here. Just might come back to P-3, which as you noted Eno has a severity more acceptable to us earthlings -.

\- Malandah But even then, if you come here you will find in trouble! - Exclaimed Iianng, illuminated by the speech Gherard.

\- Yes, You're right! - James also said, after thinking - the system of anti-gravity Malandah was damaged during the clash to the Devil and Faglia, then, by the Center for Advanced Research Arret not been reported thefts of anti-gravity systems. Well .... This could help in the search -.

\- How? - Asked Gherardi.

\- Well! If you already Iianng and I had trouble walking under the force of gravity on this planet, let alone a arret without the help of anti-gravity systems. Do not forget, then, that an arret a woman with a dragon and land are not images that are used to seeing, even on a planet like this one free. If we add to this that the arret walk with difficulty or stumbling in search of balance, it does not go completely unnoticed, even if Malandah not go around with his Falstok -.

James finished speaking, and saw Robert and Gherard open mouth as if they had revealed state secrets.

\- Erm ... Well James - Iianng said to call the attention the two p-Enian funny - I think we have to look! -.

\- Uh ... yeah, yeah - Gherard said before opening the gate of the little house to the chaotic world of commercial P-Eno 2.

Outside the home of Robert and Gherard opened a way full of colors, sounds and beings of the most disparate parts of the galaxy, so that Iianng began to doubt the possibility of being able to find information or clues about Malandah.

Iianng did not have time to see each other around now that he was approached by some p-Enian who offered to act as his guide for the planet.

\- Go away! - Robert cried when he saw them and then turning to Iianng said - Tse! Those bloody thieves work of others ... -.

\- Even you and guides you Gherard? -.

\- Sure! The guides in the northern hemisphere. The best ... - said she was struggling with voice tone and gestures, but always assuming that picture was funny that Iianng smile, so that was immediately taken by Gherard.

\- We are simple guides, like many others. In fact to tell the whole truth affairs are not going well and we were planning to invent a new job, but we lack the incentives and the right partners -.

\- My father always wanted to start a business and now that it is only really good thing for him - Iianng said, sounding sad, thinking of his father only after his departure and death of the mother.

\- Perhaps one day you decide not to reveal the truth and make it our ... - said Gherard attracting the attention of Robert and Iianng.

\- Gherard not make promises you know you can not keep - to cut the speech said James - The entrance is decided by the Council in the Alliance and only if there are particular reasons -.

\- You are right James, but who knows ... -.

The market for wood and technology, that day was really full of customers so as to make movement difficult. Many were the merchants who advertise their products by potential drugs.

\- But any movement or disorders such as Eno are adjusted to P-2 in the absence of law enforcement agencies - Iianng asked, almost yelling at Gherard, to block the sounds of the people around them.

\- Who said there's the police! Indeed. There are many companies that are Public Order handsomely paid by dealers or associates by residents of the place where you keep these markets, to prevent them from being damaged. You should know that here is everything ... maybe too much ... but everything is paid. The only thing missing is what you call State -.

\- Iianng you should know that the first inhabitants of this planet we are required not to create superstructures that could be interested in a hypocrite of the common good and not the individual. He wanted to leave the business skills of the individual growth so that those who could not survive for various reasons, would have to leave the planet - said James.

\- But you forget that those who have reached a certain level of affluence has created facilities for receiving, feeding and supporting the resumption of those who have found themselves in difficulties - said Robert.

\- It's true! But even those structures often have their own self-interest: when the guy in trouble shooting often must match many interests -.

\- In short, the market reigns supreme here! - Exclaimed Iianng Gherard before asking where they were.

\- We are going to the office of the Company control inputs which is not far from here. It is a company that was founded by some friends to monitor and control access to the planet. We should almost be -.

Once out of the chaotic market, and Robert Gherard looking around the many shops that of their friends, but with great astonishment of the same, instead they saw the sign of a small restaurant dishes extrapieniane.

\- Gherard But, the exercise was not there, instead of that multi-ethnic restaurant? - Robert asked amazed.

\- Yes, yes ... but what has happened! We're going to ask - and without waiting for an answer Gherard headed for the new restaurant, from which came a strong smell of dishes and foods consumed in different solar systems in the galaxy.

\- Mamma mia, that stinks! - Robert said when he was inside the room - This is definitely the smell of that crap that cook up Arret -.

The place was full, a waiter approached them.

\- A table for four? ... For here -.

\- No, no. We would like to speak with the owner - said James before the small and cute waiter ran to the empty table.

\- Have you been frustrated by a previous service? - Concerned about the waiter said, and only after he was reassured by the grounds of their claim led them to Louis, a big big man, moustachioed origins of land clearly.

\- Dear fellow countrymen that I can do for you? - Said in a voice clear and strong ground when he saw the guests.

\- We wanted information on the Company's control inputs, which carried on its business in this place - said Gherardi.

\- Closed! It was not an activity that very popular, given that the planet is not to prevent but encourage the entry of new customers -.

\- Yeah! - Disconsolately exclaimed Gherardi.

\- ... And I do not believe that others have ventured in starting such a risky activity - then changing the subject asked the big man - I can help you prepare the specialties of our beautiful Earth? -.

\- No, we hurry. It will be a next time. Anyway thank you very much for the information you gave us - said James.

When they were all out of the room again and again Robert was able to breathe deeply, James tried to rearrange ideas to see what could be their next move.

\- Now it becomes very difficult! - Gherard said not knowing what to advise.

A silence fell between the four friends, intent on thinking about what to do. The sounds of the nearby market and the strong smell of the nearby restaurant failed to attract their attention until, in Iianng not had an idea.

\- Gherard you said that here too there is a police body. So should be recorded theft or damage suffered by the inhabitants ... -.

\- Well - said Gherardi, following the speech Iianng.

\- Malandah, if not with money or other valuable material. What they need to steal it. Then, the neighbors may have heard Isabel seek help and reported the matter to the police -.

\- Yeah! - Confirmed James happy - Iianng, besides being a careful observer would have been a great secret agent -.

Gherardi and Robert immediately became way through people to reach the office of the Association of Societies of nearest police station. They came on a great street full of large buildings including the modern one that stood four circles. At the entrance there was a reception where they had an indication of Mr. Gilbert, whose request for information.

This was more than a cop looked like a private agent, dressed all point, lean and blacks with big glasses on his face. Upon entering his room, pointed to Iianng and the other could sit in the chairs.

\- What can I help gentlemen? - He said quietly.

\- We need to know if they have been denounced by theft arretiani -.

\- In what area exactly? - Gilbert said, and initiated the research program on a modern computer whose images magically appeared on the huge glass wall in front of the desk.

\- Ahem ... in fact, research should be extended to the whole planet, but to shrunken thefts from two days ago -.

\- Well! - Said Gilbert, as he was concerned, was not interested for reasons of personal research, but the gain expected.

\- You are in luck! - Said at one point Gilbert - On the day before yesterday there were only two reported thefts arretiani and both in the same area, but not very far from here ... -.

\- We hear! Why did you stop? - James said.

\- Um ... James, you have to pay for the service and I and Robert at the moment ... - answered Gherard embarrassed.

\- Yeah! I forgot that everything here is free of charge. ... - And immediately took the electronic card provided to it by the Intelligence of Arret, which were credited galactic currencies. Once Gilbert took the card in his hand did not hesitate to insert it into his computer to credit the money for his service.

\- Well? - James said after the payment was made.

\- The theft occurred in the Valley of Iglor. The first in a grocery store and then in a store electronic and mechanical. Both have denounced the theft robbed by an arret he ran away awkwardly almost lost its balance in flight. In the last theft, I read that the trader has put to flight the arret, but managed to catch a woman who was with him during land theft -.

\- And now where is she? - Exclaimed Iianng having understood that it was Isabel.

\- This is new information that requires a separate payment - Gilbert said, noting the desire to know his customers.

\- Ah, the cops p-eniani! - James said, holding out the card again to Gilbert.

\- The land was handed over to security companies and self-assurance will tomorrow tried for complicity in the theft of some expensive electronic equipment -.

\- Probably the missing parts to make the bomb \- said James, quickly changing address to avoid attracting the curiosity of the expensive cop.

\- In which court will be processed? - Asked Iianng concerned about the fate of Isabel.

\- In the Court of the Valley of Iglor and you must hurry because the processes are very fast here - Gilbert responded by returning the card for payment to James and waving to avoid losing work time in chatter.

Once out of the great palace, headquarters of the Society of Police, the four friends stopped to eat something to avoid hearing the cries of the hungry Robert, before his departure for the Court Valley Iglor.

CHAPTER XIII:

ISABEL IS SAVE!

The Valley Iglor at the expense of what the name could have imagined, it was a crowded neighborhood of the one huge city that now covered the entire planet. No peaceful valley, only commercial buildings and people everywhere.

The constructions made on Eno P-2 were designed primarily to the exercise of trade. The part intended for a private residence, in fact, was very low. The inhabitants of P-2 Eno, in fact, devoted most of their lives in the workplace. The private kitchen there and you had to go to eat in one of several eateries. Any form of self-sufficiency when it was being fought in deleterious to economic development and trade that existed on the planet.

Iianng and his friends to arrive in the neighborhood had to use one of the means of transport. To facilitate trade-related transport, in fact, was forbidden to use their own means to move around the planet. If this had occurred, had standing to bring down the aircraft without the possibility of private justice. Justice was in fact a set of rules that local merchants had been imposed to regulate their affairs. The physical execution of punishment was delegated to private companies, like the court in the Valley Iglor.

The Court was established in a large building and a reception as all the others.

The hearing of Isabel had just begun and four friends were able to arrive just in time to witness the proceedings in the courtroom.

Isabel had a tired face, but physically he was fine. She was sitting in the dock and when she saw entering the classroom Iianng James and a smile lit his face.

\- At last we found it! - Exclaimed Iianng happy.

\- It looks good, but now how do we make it exonerate? -.

\- Well, all these hearings can defend the accused, too! - Robert said, as if it were obvious.

After the framing of charges by the manager of the Company, Iianng did not hesitate to take up the defense of Isabel.

\- Gentlemen, allow me to defend the accused. Isabel has been kidnapped BY arretiano who made the theft of which you speak. It is not an accomplice but a victim. We were conducting investigations to release and capture the fugitive arret. If the court wants, we can give proof of what I just said -.

\- Mr manager, the trader has failed to provide evidence against the accused to prove his participation in the robbery. How can you condemn it? - James bolus injection.

Despite the arguments of Iianng and James were valid, the court in which they were was governed exclusively by the logic of the market. The judge was not interested in private Rosco the truth, the search for the real culprit, but only a speedy recover damages from those who testified under the circumstances appeared to be involved in the affair. Any from prosecution innocence could only legitimize any subsequent action for recovery.

Iianng was desperate, so that Isabel decided to leave by force, and then escape from a planet so greedy for money.

\- But no boy! - Gherard promptly said - there is a solution ... we should ... um -.

\- Next Gherard speaks, the court order stands for Isabel! - Iianng said worried.

\- Um ... you should pay the court! -.

\- But how do I get it now. We would not be imprisoned for corruption ruined our mission - James whispered.

\- But no! - Said Robert - The payment is allowed. The problem is the amount and how do you know ... uh ... we now have a lot of liquidity -.

\- But you could say it first! - James said taking the card for payments went to the court that when she saw the card ended up being nervous, and built the large sum of money, ordered the immediate release of the accused and engage in another hearing.

Once freed Isabel ran to embrace Iianng and James, happy to see them.

### CHAPTER XIV:

### RESEARCH MALANDAH.

After a turbulent day on the planet from the greedy traders Eno P-2, Iianng pleased to have found Isabel was able to enjoy a rest in the room of Gerard and Robert.

This consisted of a single room, full of maps, images and more of the planet, indications of posts and places to visit and records of people to call.

\- Gherard I see that you live in utter confusion! - James said as he entered in the home of two p-Enian.

\- And I know! We should put some order -

\- Serving Gherard. I am tidy - freeing said Robert, as was his custom, from all unrighteousness.

Meanwhile, Isabel, after buying an awareness of his release, he began to speak.

\- I had a translator with me ... so I could not communicate with Malandah - said after a brief pause. - I do not know why he did that gesture Malandah nor could I ask him, but I can say with certainty that I was never treated badly or tried to hurt me. Probably fearing attack me simply used as a defense -

\- How come you brought with him during the burglary at electronic store and electronics? -

\- I do not know James! Have asked me but ... -.

\- While you've got the feeling that you wanted to use only as a shield to escape, it is likely that he wanted liberasi you and leave you in a place where it would be easy recovery - said James, after some thought.

\- Yes! Perhaps not mistake James -.

\- Rather than say you know something more. What exactly was stolen? -.

\- Well at first I was not stealing, but I guess he got some food for us and the dragon could not let free without arousing the attention of the neighborhood. The journey was long and much of my fatigue is due to the fact that the ship there were sufficient nutrients for all three ... -.

Before I go on the talk Gherad Isabel Isabel handed a plate of nutritious fruits in the meantime he had prepared.

\- Gherard Thanks! - Isabel said, before continuing with the story - the second theft, on the contrary, I have witnessed. Malandah stole some tools he needed to complete the bomb and to repair the solar spacecraft during landing at P-2 Eno has suffered minor damage due to high gravity -.

\- During your absence there have been some thefts. One of the Rift Devil's in the cave, inside which you are no longer found the final part of the project to build the bomb. The other Arret Advanced Research Center, where he disappeared to the initial project. Nollah said that just having the two parts of the project can understand the workings of the bomb, since it has deliberately made unreadable Malandah parts taken in isolation - and after a short pause, James said - if you happened to see the two parts of the project were have Malandah? -.

\- Malandah has only one party. I think the first one. However, from what I could guess the bomb is almost complete and now I find the place where he intends to detonate it -.

The look of concern on everyone's face was evident and after a brief pause Gherard had the strength to ask.

\- It's always been a concern of my friend Robert, but now, hearing what you just told me ... Malandah also very concerned about plans to blow up this planet? -.

\- Absolutely not! I noticed that the spacecraft Malandah set the course of the planet Watt-One. I think there is direct - he said to reassure the two p-Enian.

\- Watt-One! - James said scared - but it will destroy not just try to reach their planet. The wattiani beings are very advanced and I do not think that the intentions of Malandah go unnoticed -.

\- But we are sure you want to make war on Malandah wattiani? From what he told me pacificus, have always been peaceful beings - Iianng said.

\- Yes! I did not say who will attack Malandah wattiani. I only said that it is directed in that direction. Could attack them, as to seek an agreement with them. ... Watt-One might just be a planet that is on the route -.

\- Already ... - James said thoughtfully that, immediately after, he added - at least we have a reference to follow! -.

\- So Watt-One awaits us! - Said at last almost Iianng James and Isabel to prepare the trip awaiting them.

### CHAPTER XV:

### THE MYSTERIOUS ONE-WATT.

After greeting Gherard and Robert's trip Iianng with James and found Isabel was taken by one of the mysterious Watt-One.

The lights that lit up the big planet Eno P-2 became the first and then the star of the system p-eniano as more and more dim, until it disappears. The spacecraft traveled back into interstellar space, leaving behind the chaotic world of commerce Iianng that he had just visited.

Although everyone knew the galactic coordinates to reach the mysterious and lonely planet Watt-One, no one had ever dared to approach. Its inhabitants, in fact, they said, they were so smart when aggressive in defending their findings.

At a certain point of the trip by his Iianng wanted to have more news that James worked at the Intelligence Arret, it is decided that he had more news about it.

\- James, tell me something more about this planet -.

\- Do not really know much. Even in the records of the Intelligence Arret there are large information gathered. It speaks only of ships never returned from the trip taken to Watt-One -.

\- You know, there is no trace in the registers of participation, in the past, wattiani of the meetings of the Galactic Council? - Isabel asked curiously.

\- No. Only the prof. Pacificus Regges had contact or at least seems to have more information on that civilization -.

\- I think before thinking about landing on Watt-One should ask an opinion Pacificus - Iianng said, reflecting on the dangers of the journey.

\- Maybe you're right Iianng. Malandah could, in fact, could be directed elsewhere. ... Even if you do not know any other inhabited places on this route, the spacecraft reached by holding Malandah. ... Now I send a radio signal Pacificus - and while fiddling with the radio, he added - Unfortunately we are unable to reply messages if you do not have when we are near Watt-One. The distance that now separates us from the Earth is remarkable -.

Meanwhile, the spacecraft was traveling in interstellar space, away from Earth, by Arret and also from P-2 Eno.

\- I still wonder what his intentions may have Malandah - Isabel meditates - I have not seen him in bad gestures or expressions. ... Has never been a deranged person and his strong altruism leads me to think much about the purpose of his act -.

\- You exclude warlike intentions? - James asked, sitting in the driver's seat.

\- Yes, even though I have nothing definite to say. ... The fact that the same is returned to Arret to resume the initial part of the projects, having completed the bomb, the risk of being caught makes me think -.

\- It may have done to prevent anyone from understanding the operation of the bomb and defuse - James said.

\- I do not think. A bomb so powerful that once triggered hard to avoid the explosion. It seems more plausible to think that would prevent others in possession of the second part of the projects, he could make another bomb. ... I wonder who stole those projects in the cave of the Rift of the Devil! -

\- Isabel I do not know your answer now. It is another investigation on the Arret of Intelligence is working in great secrecy -.

Meanwhile, the spacecraft had come close to that, it is considered to be the position of Watt-One.

\- I do not see anything! - Said Iianng - Where is this mysterious planet? -.

\- Is it possible that he did jump ... Malandah -. James did not finish when he felt the shaking on the spacecraft.

\- But ... What? What's happening? - Said Iianng saw James rush to turn the engines at full power after additional reversed.

The ship had begun to act the forces of the magnetic field of a big black hole that, after the turnaround was behind them. Only thanks to the sudden movement of James's three friends managed to avoid the danger.

\- Instead of Watt-One was a massive black hole. That's why no one has ever returned to report on travel to that planet - James said, still shaken by the narrow escape.

Just then came the response message pacificus, in which it ordered to turn back because Watt-One can be reached only through a dangerous time travel through the black hole. Pacificus also, without giving reasons, exclude the possibility that he was going to Malandah Watt-One.

\- He did not go on-One Watt! - James said, "But where could be brought if not here. There are other inhabited planets in the vicinity -.

\- James, what do we do now? We can not grope in the dark. The autonomy of the spacecraft do not allow it - said Isabel.

\- I know - he said disconsolately James - We have no choice but to return to P-2 to stock Eno. Yet even Malandah a ship like ours and if you have not ventured into the travel time, as he says Pacificus, is not very far -.

As soon as he finished the sentence of James went back to the checkpoint to avoid a cluster of meteorites that were heading straight for them.

Again, the spacecraft beams strong jolts. Many were more or less large meteorites that James had to deftly avoid. At one point Iianng escalmò - what's that light? There among those meteroriti! -.

James and Isabel's attention was attracted by the light that was to their right. It was like a little sun around which a large meteorite that sometimes obscured the view of placing the little star and the spacecraft.

After a kidnapped turn, avoiding the last small meteorites, the spacecraft was near the small star.

\- Solar is the bomb! - Iianng said.

### CHAPTER XVI:

### The bomb exploded.

The large asteroid appeared very similar to a small planet revolving around a small artificial star, had its own atmosphere, and probably the conditions to harbor life.

Albeit with some concerns, Ianng and others decided to land on the artificial planet. The thing occurred by chance and a possible return to P-2 for Eno supplies and return with reinforcements could have missed the opportunity to capture Malandah.

Then, after sending a radio signal to the Galactic Council to report their position and give the alarm, James started the movement for entry into the atmosphere.

The spacecraft landed safely on one of the many and vast expanses of sand in the artificial planet. Nearby was a small forest with some trees that Iianng had seen in his dreams in Africa: the vegetation was typical of Arret.

\- The weather is hot and the air slightly thinner than the Earth resembled those terribly Arret - James said when he stepped on the soil of the planet and took off his mask, after notifying the computer of the presence of oxygen on the planet.

\- You're right James! - Isabel answered as soon as she felt the warm rays on the skin of the artificial sun that shone in the sky.

\- This is a sign that the author of this is none other than Malandah. But why create an artificial planet very similar to that source? - James is asked first to see each other around - However, remember that Malandah might be nearby and is well defended by armed dangerous Falstok -.

\- I would advise that only you and me we had to scour the planet - said Iianng - Isabel is preferable that the spacecraft back into orbit to prevent it from being destroyed by any attacks of the dragon and bring the situation under control. In addition, it is yet to be proven from the prison, there would be help in a possible duel -.

\- You're right! We will do so - said James to avoid any discussion about that Isabel had to abide by the decision of the majority.

Isabel, the two friends after leaving the radio and weapons, went back with the spacecraft to orbit the small artificial planet.

Iianng and James were now alone in the world around them and you could hear only the sound of wind through the valley where they were and the forest nearby.

It was the first time Iianng felt the sensation of walking on a planet completely deserted.

\- Come to this side Iianng! - James said, seeing his friend still enchanted by the silence that surrounded him - we try to scour the planet by not staying in the open. If this planet is actually made by Malandah, the dragon Falstok could be established during the flight and warn his master -.

\- You're right James -.

\- Now we move to the east, trying to avoid cold places discovered -.

The two friends walked for hours without signs of life were visible on the planet: stretched, small forests and hills, completely deserted. Iianng, tired from the long walk, began to have thirst, and along with James, went to a small lake that was visible through the vegetation of the forest where they were.

Once at the pond edge, Iianng put his weapon and began to drink the water clear and fresh as long as a loud noise and cube broke the quiet sounds of nature. A deep breath and dark came from behind a rock located not far from them. The menacing figure of the dragon Falstok suddenly emerged from behind the rock and when she saw Iianng and James let out a yell that broke the profound silence. The heart of Iianng rose in my throat and grabbed her by the shoulders by his race, like hell, to the dense vegetation, leaving his weapon at the edge of the pond.

The dragon stood on the flight and, in no time at all, he found himself above the trees that served as shelter for the two boys.

James gripped the laser gun, but the fear, the wind caused by the beating of wings and thick vegetation prevented Falstok to take aim.

As soon as Falstok, had identified the two with its large yellow eyes, the feline eyes, they heard a deep breath that foretold the launch of fire. Iianng, seeing a rock formation nearby, shouted to his friend to follow him and the latter a while before all the vegetation burned Falstok cha was a shield, escaped in the direction indicated.

It was a complex rock formation, located along a small cliff. The rocks would protect the two children from the flames of Falstok but their escape was prevented by now, on the one hand, and the other from the brink of the forest on fire now.

\- We can do is kill the dragon! - James said looking at his friend frightened by the situation they were in and as soon as the dragon was on the rocks trying to break through with the huge claws, sneaked in to surprise a crack rock behind the dragon.

Iianng, remained motionless where he was, could already see the huge claws of the dragon, open a slit in the rock, trying to grab it.

The rocky channel in which he had ventured his friend was now hidden from the fragments of rock that destroying the dragon had dropped some stones. Every escape route appear to be blocked and Iianng froze when, after a brief pause, he saw the resurgence of the slit yellow eye of the dragon to scrutinize it. Soon after threatening warned that deep breath that would not give him a chance. The fire would have burned failing to escape between the rocks. Iianng had already closed their eyes in fear when he heard a shot laser and the URL of the dragon, shortly after he fell on rocks above with a deep thud.

After a few moments from the small opening appeared to James, the gun resting on the edge of the rock, put out a hand to his friend - we did it again this time. Give me your hand to pull you up Iianng -.

Iianng, did not have time to stand once released by the rocks that he saw behind the dark figure of James Malandah pointing his friend with a weapon.

\- Watch out James! Behind you ... -. The shouted Iianng was not enough to prevent his friend was hit by Malandah. Shortly after James stumbled and fell on the rocks beside Falstok.

Iianng, still desperate for the incident, he tried to flee to the rocks, but mindful of the precipice, stopped abruptly, and putting a foot wrong, he slipped on the rocks falling down the rocky walls of the precipice. His fall was broken by an overhanging rock that saved his life. However, the violent shock he lost the directions to Iianng who fainted on the rocky outcrop overlooking the precipice.

### CHAPTER XVII:

### THE END.

Iianng When he opened his eyes and saw Nollah who took care of him.

\- Iianng How are you? -

\- Good. Now well, apart from the pain in the head - said touching the dressing and then ask worried - James, how are you? -.

\- He's fine. Isabel is now in the boat and soon we will reach -.

After set up, Iianng saw the lifeless body of the great dragon and next to Malandah.

\- Malandah died. What happened? - Church commemorates the battle and his fainting.

\- I received a radio message that you sent me and I crashed on this planet. I arrived just in time to save your life. You were dropped along the parts of a rock cliff and has blocked your fall towards the abyss. Malandah took aim and was about to kill you and I could not help but hit it to save your life. After falling casualty is slipped over the precipice -.

\- I understand! I'm sorry for Malandah and also because now we'll never know the reasons which led a brilliant scientist to make this gesture - he said saddened Iianng.

\- At least we have recovered the second part of the project -.

\- Nollah remember that we still have to figure out who took the first part of the projects. The situation is still not entirely clear if those who have the first part of the project is able to appropiate of what we now have recovered the danger becomes more serious, acnhe because we will not have to do with how a scientist peaceful Malandah -.

Nollah Iianng then helped to his feet, and to the friends. The wind and the silence of nature again dominated on the artificial planet Malandah.

### # # #

Giovanni Maria plasma was always a big fan of short stories and fantastic adventures. Already by the early years of elementary school writing on small notebooks, given him parents, fairy tales and leads through mysterious planets. Its extreme restraint, however, led him to keep well hidden his passion. The passion was revealed when, during the high school, John found himself writing his first issue of Italian. The Italian teacher to assess his new pupil, decided to write a story with the only constraint that free protagonists were of the same classmates. A corrections carried out, the professor was amazed at the imagination of John, who decided to read to all pupils, its theme, which tells of an adventure through another dimension in which the captain of the expedition, engaged in the rescue of a beautiful princess and of her maid, it was the same professor. The passion for television series, documentaries and movies fantastic was evident in John, from the earliest years of school, when a decade under house just bought a book from the library about astronomy. Despite the incomprehensibility of the text figures John loved to watch and read the short comment. Among his favorite books is the wonderful book "Little Prince" that has much influenced the author, as well as the stories of Franz Kafca. Legal studies, then, absorbed much of the time and writing fairy tales was shelved. However, this was not enough to not to bring out the secret passion. After graduation and a competition between the other, in fact, John began to write in secret, the plot of a series of fantastic tales, which have as their protagonist Iianng (short for John) and two other books which, though independent from the first, tell stories with hidden meanings, carriyng as its protagonist's father Iianng.

